<a name="01"></a>
!!! warning "Finder does not have the resources to shepherd a CVD case through to resolution"

    !!! warning inline end ""
    
        **Role(s) affected:** Finder
    
        **Phase(s):** Discovery, Reporting, Validation and prioritization, Remediation, Public Awareness
    
        **Description:**
    
         1. The vulnerability was found
         2. The finder / reporter is unable to devote the necessary resources (time, effort, etc.) to following it through to resolution

    - Choosing to participate in Coordinated Vulnerability Disclosure can set into motion a protracted series of events which many finders and reporters may find exceeds their ability to sustain. The short answer is that you don't have to.
    - Our experience is that many vendors are happy to receive reports even if the reporter disengages from the process immediately thereafter. The reporter's degree of involvement can therefore be self-regulating.
    - We also remind our readers that Finders do not have to be reporters at all. We are unaware of any requirement for finders to report any vulnerabilities directly to the affected vendors.
    - Finders that are genuinely indifferent to the effects of "dropping 0-day" always remain free to do so. (Although this likely impacts vendors' propensity to cooperate with them in the future.) Nonetheless going public with a vulnerability can be valid choice on the part of the finder. It's often informative if they also share their reason for doing so.
    - For finders that want to be reporters but not manage the process, third party coordinators can sometimes offload some of the effort required.


