# Copyright

CopyrightÂ® 2017-2024 Carnegie Mellon University. All Rights Reserved.

This material is based upon work funded and supported by the Department
of Defense under Contract No. FA8702-15-D-0002 with Carnegie Mellon
University for the operation of the Software Engineer- ing Institute, a
federally funded research and development center.

The view, opinions, and/or findings contained in this material are those
of the author(s) and should not be construed as an official Government
position, policy, or decision, unless designated by other documentation.

This report was prepared for the SEI Administrative Agent AFLCMC/AZS 5
Eglin Street Hanscom AFB, MA 01731-2100

NO WARRANTY. THIS CARNEGIE MELLON UNIVERSITY AND SOFTWARE ENGINEERING
INSTITUTE MATERIAL IS FURNISHED ON AN "AS-IS" BASIS. CARNEGIE MELLON
UNIVERSITY MAKES NO WARRANTIES OF ANY KIND, EITHER EXPRESSED OR IMPLIED,
AS TO ANY MATTER INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, WARRANTY OF FITNESS FOR
PURPOSE OR MERCHANTABILITY, EXCLUSIVITY, OR RESULTS OBTAINED FROM USE OF
THE MATERIAL. CARNEGIE MELLON UNIVERSITY DOES NOT MAKE ANY WARRANTY OF
ANY KIND WITH RESPECT TO FREEDOM FROM PATENT, TRADEMARK, OR COPYRIGHT
INFRINGEMENT.

\[DISTRIBUTION STATEMENT A\] This material has been approved for public
release and unlimited distribution. Please see Copyright notice for
non-US Government use and distribution.

Internal use:[^1] Permission to reproduce this material and to prepare
derivative works from this material for internal use is granted,
provided the copyright and "No Warranty" statements are included with
all reproductions and derivative works.

External use:[^1] This material may be reproduced in its entirety, without
modification, and freely distributed in written or electronic form
without requesting formal permission. Permission is required for any
other external and/or commercial use. Requests for permission should be
directed to the Software Engineering Institute at
[permission@sei.cmu.edu](mailto:permission@sei.cmu.edu).

[^1]: These restrictions do not apply to U.S. government entities.

DM17-0508
