



1.  [CERT Guide to CVD](index.html)
2.  [The CERT Guide to Coordinated Vulnerability
    Disclosure](The-CERT-Guide-to-Coordinated-Vulnerability-Disclosure_47677443.html)
3.  [5. Process Variation
    Points](5.-Process-Variation-Points_47677473.html)


# [ CERT Guide to CVD : 5.1 Choosing a Disclosure Policy ]{#title-text} {#title-heading .pagetitle}




Created by [ Allen D. Householder]{.author}, last modified by [
user-5e993]{.editor} on 2019-05-29



For those responsible for implementing the CVD process, defining a
disclosure policy is an important first step. A well-defined policy
makes it clear what other participants in the CVD process can expect
when they engage with you and establishes good relationships between
finders, reporters, vendors, coordinators, and other stakeholders.

\

A disclosure policy typically describes what CVD stakeholders (finders,
reporters, vendors, coordinators) can expect in terms of these factors:

-   **Scope** -- A description of the scope of issues to which the
    policy applies. This scope should be as explicit as possible,
    especially when there are specific boundaries of concern to the
    organization. If a bounty is to be paid for some classes of
    vulnerability reports, the scope definition should clearly delineate
    which kinds of reports will be eligible for the bounty.

-   **Exceptions** -- Any exceptional conditions that may alter the
    typical flow of the process

-   **Safe Harbor** -- Should your organization choose to explicitly
    disavow legal retribution against reporters who otherwise follow the
    policy, that fact should be clearly laid out in the policy document.

-   [**Report quality requirements** -- It\'s okay to require reports to
    meet a certain level of quality before committing to taking action
    on them. However, it\'s also useful to judiciously apply the
    principle of robustness here: \"In general, an implementation should
    be conservative in its sending behavior, and liberal in its
    receiving behavior\"
    \[1\].]{style="color: rgb(23,43,77);text-decoration: none;"}

-   **Preferred Communication Language(s)** -- If the organization has
    preferences for specific (human) languages for reports, the policy
    should specify this. That said, English is usually acceptable as a
    default.

-   **Contact Information** -- How should reports be submitted? How can
    you be reached?

-   **Timing** -- Setting expectations for response timelines of the
    various milestones in a vulnerability report case can be helpful
    too. Most important are expected time to acknowledge receipt of a
    report and a default disclosure timeframe if one has been defined.
    An acknowledgement timeframe of 24-48 hours is common for vendors
    and coordinators, while 45-90 days seems to be the normal range for
    disclosures these days. That said, we recommend that both vendors
    and reporters treat policy-declared disclosure timeframes as the
    starting point of a negotiation process rather than a hard deadline.

[\
]{style="color: rgb(23,43,77);text-decoration: none;"}

[A few examples of vulnerability disclosure policies can be found in
[Appendix
E](/confluence/pages/createpage.action?spaceKey=CVD&title=Appendix+E+%E2%80%93+Disclosure+Policy+Templates&linkCreation=true&fromPageId=47677474){.createlink}.\
]{style="color: rgb(23,43,77);text-decoration: none;"}

[RFC 2350 provides recommendations on how to publish information about
your CSIRT and disclosure policy and procedures
\[2\]]{style="color: rgb(23,43,77);text-decoration: none;"}.

\



\< [5. Process Variation
Points](5.-Process-Variation-Points_47677473.html) \| [5.2 Disclosure
Choices](5.2-Disclosure-Choices_47677475.html) \>



## References {#id-5.1ChoosingaDisclosurePolicy-References}

1.  [J. Postel, \"Internet Protocol (RFC 760),\"
    1980.]{style="color: rgb(23,43,77);text-decoration: none;"}
2.  [N. Brownlee and E. Guttman, \"Expectations for Computer Security
    Incident Response,\" The Internet Society,
    1998.]{style="color: rgb(23,43,77);text-decoration: none;"}






Document generated by Confluence on 2023-10-27 14:58 -0400


[Atlassian](https://www.atlassian.com/)




