



1.  [CERT Guide to CVD](index.html)
2.  [The CERT Guide to Coordinated Vulnerability
    Disclosure](The-CERT-Guide-to-Coordinated-Vulnerability-Disclosure_47677443.html)
3.  [5. Process Variation
    Points](5.-Process-Variation-Points_47677473.html)


# [ CERT Guide to CVD : 5.2 Disclosure Choices ]{#title-text} {#title-heading .pagetitle}




Created by [ Allen D. Householder]{.author}, last modified by [
user-5e993]{.editor} on 2019-05-29



As we have mentioned previously, participants in Coordinated
Vulnerability Disclosure iterate over the following questions:

1.  What actions should I take in response to this knowledge?
2.  Who else should I tell about it?
3.  What should I tell them?\
    [\
    ]{style="color: rgb(23,43,77);text-decoration: none;"}

[Let\'s take a moment to explore questions 2 and 2a in a few scenarios.
Each of these disclosure options have advantages and disadvantages. In
this section, we adapt and expand some terminology from Shepherd
\[1\]:]{style="color: rgb(23,43,77);text-decoration: none;"}

-   **No Disclosure** -- All information about the vulnerability is kept
    private. Sometimes this is enforced by non-disclosure agreements
    (NDAs). Vendors sometimes prefer this scenario to protect trade
    secrets or to lessen the impact of perceived negative press. Some
    finders prefer not to disclose vulnerabilities to anyone, in the
    hope that malicious actors will not find out about the vulnerability
    if it is not disclosed. Data on the outcomes of a non-disclosure
    policy are difficult to come by, as these vulnerabilities are by
    definition hidden from public view.
-   **Private Disclosure** -- When a product\'s vendor is aware of a
    vulnerability, the vendor may take action to address it but will
    only notify its own customer base of the vulnerability and its
    mitigation privately. Many of the same motives as the No Disclosure
    policy are also in play here; the hope is that malicious actors are
    much less likely to find out about and exploit a vulnerability if
    very few people are made aware of the issue. Avoiding negative press
    is also cited as a reason for this approach. Some vulnerability
    finders are satisfied by this method if all known customers can be
    reached, so that everyone using the software may be protected.
    However, this approach is often not practical for widely deployed or
    open source software.
-   **Limited (Partial) Disclosure** -- When a vulnerability is found,
    only some information about the vulnerability is disclosed to the
    public. The goal is typically to slow down reverse engineering and
    exploit development long enough for a fix to be developed and
    deployed. This is done by withholding proof of concept code or other
    technical details of the vulnerability while still providing enough
    information that users of the product may take action to mitigate
    the issue.
-   **Full Disclosure** -- When a vulnerability is found, all
    information about the vulnerability is disclosed to the public.
    Typically, this scenario results in the release of proof of concept
    exploit code along with a report describing the vulnerability. In
    some cases, finders following a full disclosure approach may not
    attempt to notify the vendor at all in advance of the public release
    of the vulnerability report. In other cases, they may contact the
    vendor simultaneously or shortly before issuing a public report. The
    belief is that this approach serves the greater good by allowing
    consumers to be aware of the full impact of issues in their products
    and demand action from vendors, as well as have information
    available to take appropriate defensive action and make more
    informed purchasing decisions. Another perceived benefit is that a
    full disclosure allows other researchers and organizations to
    reproduce and confirm the vulnerability, whereas a more limited
    disclosure may not provide enough information to do so. Alternately,
    this type of disclosure may also be performed by the vendors
    themselves: many open source projects, for example, handle security
    issues in the open in order to maximize review of the vulnerability
    and testing of the proposed solution.\
    \



\< [5.1 Choosing a Disclosure
Policy](5.1-Choosing-a-Disclosure-Policy_47677474.html) \| [5.3
Two-Party CVD](5.3-Two-Party-CVD_47677476.html) \>



## References {#id-5.2DisclosureChoices-References}

1.  [S. Shepherd, \"Vulnerability Disclosure: How Do We Define
    Responsible Disclosure?\" SANS GIAC SEC Practical Repository,
    2003.]{style="color: rgb(23,43,77);text-decoration: none;"}












