



1.  [CERT Guide to CVD](index.md)
2.  [The CERT Guide to Coordinated Vulnerability
    Disclosure](The-CERT-Guide-to-Coordinated-Vulnerability-Disclosure_47677443.md)
3.  [5. Process Variation
    Points](5.-Process-Variation-Points_47677473.md)


# 5.4 Multiparty CVD 








[Most of the interesting cases in CVD involve more than two parties, as
these are the cases where the most care must be taken. Automation of the
process can help somewhat, but the impact technology can have on the
problem is limited by the inherent complexities involved in trying to
get numerous organizations to synchronize their development, testing,
and release processes in order to reduce the risk to users.
]{style="color: rgb(23,43,77);text-decoration: none;"}

[From a coordinator\'s perspective, it can be difficult to be fair, as
you\'re almost guaranteed to either miss some downstream vendor or wind
up with one or more vendors ready to release while everyone is waiting
for the other vendors to catch up. We discuss this conundrum further in
{== TODO fixme [Section 6](6.-Troubleshooting-CVD_47677482.md) ==}
below.]{style="color: rgb(23,43,77);text-decoration: none;"}[\
]{style="color: rgb(23,43,77);text-decoration: none;"}

[The FIRST Vulnerability Coordination SIG \[1\] has published its
\"Guidelines and Practices for Multi-Party Vulnerability Coordination
and Disclosure\" \[2\] which we strongly recommend
reading.]{style="color: rgb(23,43,77);text-decoration: none;"}[\
]{style="color: rgb(23,43,77);text-decoration: none;"}

[Success at multiparty coordination has more to do with understanding
human communication and organization phenomena than with the technical
details of the vulnerability. The hard parts are nearly always about
coordinating the behavior of multiple humans with diverse values,
motives, constraints, beliefs, feelings, and available energy and time.
The vulnerability details may dictate the \"what\" of the response, but
to a large degree human social behaviors decide the
\"how.\"]{style="color: rgb(23,43,77);text-decoration: none;"}[\
]{style="color: rgb(23,43,77);text-decoration: none;"}

[In the next few subsections we discuss a number of issues that we have
observed in performing multiparty CVD over the
years.]{style="color: rgb(23,43,77);text-decoration: none;"}

# Multiple Finders / Reporters {#id-5.4MultipartyCVD-MultipleFinders/Reporters}

I[f one person can find a vulnerability, another person can too. While
documented instances of independent discovery are relatively rare,
independent discovery of vulnerabilities can and does happen.
]{style="color: rgb(23,43,77);text-decoration: none;"}

[Perhaps the best known example of multiple finders is Heartbleed
(CVE-2014-0160). ]{style="color: rgb(23,43,77);text-decoration: none;"}

[In part because of the complexity of the coordinated disclosure
process, a second CVE identifier was assigned to the same vulnerability
(CVE-2014-0346) \[3\].
]{style="color: rgb(23,43,77);text-decoration: none;"}

[We discuss independent discovery further in [Section
6.5](6.5-Independent-Discovery_47677487.md).]{style="color: rgb(23,43,77);text-decoration: none;"}

# Complicated Supply Chains {#id-5.4MultipartyCVD-ComplicatedSupplyChains}

[Many products today are not developed by a single organization.
Instead, they are assembled from components sourced from other
organizations. ]{style="color: rgb(23,43,77);text-decoration: none;"}

[For example, software libraries are often licensed for inclusion into
other products. When a vulnerability is discovered in a library
component, it is very likely that not only does the originating vendor
of the library component need to take action, but all the downstream
vendors whose products use it need to take action as well. Complex
supply chains can increase confusion regarding who is responsible for
coordinating, communicating, and ultimately fixing vulnerabilities,
leading to delays and systems exposed to unnecessary
risk.Â ]{style="color: rgb(23,43,77);text-decoration: none;"}[\
]{style="color: rgb(23,43,77);text-decoration: none;"}

[Historically, the Android ecosystem provides a clear example of this
phenomenon. A vulnerability in a library component used in the Android
operating system might have to be fixed by the library developer, then
incorporated into the Android project by Google, followed by the device
manufacturer updating its custom build of Android, and by the network
carrier performing its customizations and testing before finally
reaching the consumer\'s device. Each additional step between the party
responsible for fixing the code and the system owner (the device user,
in this case) reduces the probability that the fix will be deployed in a
timely manner, if at all
\[4\].]{style="color: rgb(23,43,77);text-decoration: none;"}[\
]{style="color: rgb(23,43,77);text-decoration: none;"}

[At the CERT/CC, we often find it useful to distinguish between vertical
and horizontal supply chains. While the vertical supply chain is most
common, we do occasionally need to navigate horizontal supply chains in
the course of the CVD
process.]{style="color: rgb(23,43,77);text-decoration: none;"}

## Vertical Supply Chain {#id-5.4MultipartyCVD-VerticalSupplyChain}

[In a vertical supply chain, a vulnerability exists in multiple products
because they all share a dependency on a vulnerable library or
component. One vendor originates the fix. Many vendors then have to
incorporate the originating vendor\'s fix into their products. Many
vendors have to publish documents, distribute patches, and cause
deployers to take
action.]{style="color: rgb(23,43,77);text-decoration: none;"}[\
]{style="color: rgb(23,43,77);text-decoration: none;"}

[One example of a CVD process following a vertical supply chain is as
follows: a vulnerability might be initially identified in product X, but
is then isolated to a library that product X includes as a dependency.
In this case, the library developer must be engaged as another party to
the coordination process in the role of patch originator.
]{style="color: rgb(23,43,77);text-decoration: none;"}

[The complexity does not end there though. Once the library vendor has
completed its patch, not only does the vendor of product X have to
integrate the fix, but all the other vendors that include the library
need to update their products as well. We have done this kind of
coordination in the past with vulnerabilities affecting MS-SQL \[5\],
Oracle Outside In \[6\], and so on. The cascading effects of library
vulnerabilities often result in significant subsets of users left
vulnerable while they await their product vendor\'s
updates.]{style="color: rgb(23,43,77);text-decoration: none;"}

## Horizontal Supply Chain {#id-5.4MultipartyCVD-HorizontalSupplyChain}

E[ven more complex in terms of coordination are cases where multiple
products implement the same vulnerability, which is the primary
characteristic of a horizontal supply chain. Examples include
vulnerabilities arising from underspecified protocols, design flaws, and
the like. Luckily these kinds of vulnerabilities are rare.
]{style="color: rgb(23,43,77);text-decoration: none;"}

[CVD can become quite complicated when they occur, because multiple
vendors must originate fixes for their own implementations. Many such
cases combine with each originating vendor\'s downstream vertical supply
chain as well, which only serves to increase the complexity. Many
vendors have to publish docs and distribute patches, leading to
deployers needing to take multiple
actions.]{style="color: rgb(23,43,77);text-decoration: none;"}[\
]{style="color: rgb(23,43,77);text-decoration: none;"}

[Multiple implementation vulnerabilities can sometimes result from
widespread copying of vulnerable code examples from books or websites or
from developer tutorials that ignore or intentionally disable security
features in order to simplify the learning process. While we cannot
place the entirety of the blame for widespread Android SSL
Man-in-the-Middle vulnerabilities such as VU#582497 \[7\] on any
specific phenomenon, our spot checks of some of the vulnerable apps made
it clear that parallel implementation of the same errors was a
contributing factor in many of the affected apps.
]{style="color: rgb(23,43,77);text-decoration: none;"}

[In that case, we identified more than 23,000 distinct apps \[8\], and
coordinated with thousands of
vendors.]{style="color: rgb(23,43,77);text-decoration: none;"}[\
]{style="color: rgb(23,43,77);text-decoration: none;"}

[A more pernicious example of multiple implementation is a vulnerability
whose root cause lies in the specification or reference implementation
of a network protocol. Because most vendor\'s products will specifically
test for compatibility with these reference artifacts, such cases
usually imply that every product supporting that feature will need to be
fixed. Multi-originator cases can be very complex to coordinate. The
SNMP vulnerabilities found in 2002 via the OUSPG PROTOS Test Suite
c06-snmpv1 \[9,10,11,12\] represented just such a case, and stand to
this day as the most complex disclosure case the CERT/CC has ever
coordinated.]{style="color: rgb(23,43,77);text-decoration: none;"}

# Mass Notifications for Multiparty CVD {#id-5.4MultipartyCVD-MassNotificationsforMultipartyCVD}

In [their Usenix Security 2016 paper, Stock and colleagues \[13\]
examined issues surrounding large-scale vulnerability notification
campaigns. ]{style="color: rgb(23,43,77);text-decoration: none;"}

[In this work, which focused on notifying website operators of
vulnerabilities in their sites, they highlight significant difficulty in
establishing a direct communication channel with vulnerable sites.
]{style="color: rgb(23,43,77);text-decoration: none;"}

[The following is from their conclusion:\
]{style="color: rgb(23,43,77);text-decoration: none;"}

*[How do we inform affected parties about vulnerabilities on large
scale? Identifying contact points remains the main challenge that has to
be addressed by the Internet society, including network providers,
CERTs, and registrars. We imagine that this problem could, for example,
be tackled by centralized contact databases, more efficient
dissemination strategies within hosters/CERTs, or even a new
notification channel or trusted party responsible for such
notifications. Until we find solutions to the reachability problem, the
effects of large-scale notifications are likely to remain low in the
future.]{style="color: rgb(23,43,77);text-decoration: none;"}*

\



\< [5.3 Two-Party CVD](5.3-Two-Party-CVD_47677476.md) \| [5.5 Response
Pacing and
Synchronization](5.5-Response-Pacing-and-Synchronization_47677479.md)
\>



*[\
]{style="color: rgb(23,43,77);text-decoration: none;"}*

## References {#id-5.4MultipartyCVD-References}

1.  [[FIRST, \"Vulnerability Coordination SIG,\" \[Online\]. Available:
    [https://www.first.org/global/sigs/vulnerability-coordination](https://www.first.org/global/sigs/vulnerability-coordination){.external-link
    rel="nofollow"}. \[Accessed 17 May
    2017\].]{style="color: rgb(23,43,77);text-decoration: none;"}]{style="color: rgb(23,43,77);text-decoration: none;"}

2.  [[FIRST, \"Multi-Party Coordination and Disclosure,\" \[Online\].
    Available:
    [https://www.first.org/global/sigs/vulnerability-coordination/multiparty](https://www.first.org/global/sigs/vulnerability-coordination/multiparty){.external-link
    rel="nofollow"}. \[Accessed 6 June
    2017\].]{style="color: rgb(23,43,77);text-decoration: none;"}]{style="color: rgb(23,43,77);text-decoration: none;"}

3.  [[Codenomicon, \"The Heartbleed Bug,\" 29 April 2014. \[Online\].
    Available:
    [http://heartbleed.com/](http://heartbleed.com/){.external-link
    rel="nofollow"}. \[Accessed 16 May
    2017\].]{style="color: rgb(23,43,77);text-decoration: none;"}]{style="color: rgb(23,43,77);text-decoration: none;"}

4.  [[W. Dormann, \"Supporting the Android Ecosystem,\" 19 October 2015.
    \[Online\]. Available:
    [https://insights.sei.cmu.edu/cert/2015/10/supporting-the-android-ecosystem.html](https://insights.sei.cmu.edu/cert/2015/10/supporting-the-android-ecosystem.md){.external-link
    rel="nofollow"}. \[Accessed 23 May
    2017\].]{style="color: rgb(23,43,77);text-decoration: none;"}\
    ]{style="color: rgb(23,43,77);text-decoration: none;"}

5.  [J. P. Lanza, \"Vulnerability Note VU#484891 Microsoft SQL Server
    2000 contains stack buffer overflow in SQL Server Resolution
    Service,\" 26 July 2002. \[Online\]. Available:
    [https://www.kb.cert.org/vuls/id/484891](https://www.kb.cert.org/vuls/id/484891){.external-link
    rel="nofollow"}. \[Accessed 23 May
    2017\].]{style="color: rgb(23,43,77);text-decoration: none;"}

6.  [W. Dormann, \"Vulnerability Note VU#916896 Oracle Outside In 8.5.2
    contains multiple stack buffer overflows,\" 20 January 2016.
    \[Online\]. Available:
    [https://www.kb.cert.org/vuls/id/916896](https://www.kb.cert.org/vuls/id/916896){.external-link
    rel="nofollow"}. \[Accessed 23 May
    2017\].]{style="color: rgb(23,43,77);text-decoration: none;"}

7.  [[W. Dormann, \"Vulnerability Note VU#582497 Multiple Android
    applications fail to properly validate SSL certificates,\" CERT/CC,
    3 September 2014. \[Online\]. Available:
    [https://www.kb.cert.org/vuls/id/582497](https://www.kb.cert.org/vuls/id/582497){.external-link
    rel="nofollow"}. \[Accessed 16 May
    2017\].]{style="color: rgb(23,43,77);text-decoration: none;"}]{style="color: rgb(23,43,77);text-decoration: none;"}

8.  [[W. Dormann, \"Android apps that fail to validate SSL,\" 29
    August 2014. \[Online\]. Available:
    [https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1t5GXwjw82SyunALVJb2w0zi3FoLRIkfGPc7AMjRF0r4](https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1t5GXwjw82SyunALVJb2w0zi3FoLRIkfGPc7AMjRF0r4){.external-link
    rel="nofollow"}. \[Accessed 16 May
    2017\].]{style="color: rgb(23,43,77);text-decoration: none;"}]{style="color: rgb(23,43,77);text-decoration: none;"}

9.  [[University of Oulu, \"PROTOS Test-Suite: c06-snmpv1,\" 2002.
    \[Online\]. Available:
    [https://www.ee.oulu.fi/research/ouspg/PROTOS_Test-Suite_c06-snmpv1](https://www.ee.oulu.fi/research/ouspg/PROTOS_Test-Suite_c06-snmpv1){.external-link
    rel="nofollow"}. \[Accessed 16 May
    2017\].]{style="color: rgb(23,43,77);text-decoration: none;"}]{style="color: rgb(23,43,77);text-decoration: none;"}

10. [[I. A. Finlay, S. V. Hernan, J. A. Rafail, C. Dougherty, A. D.
    Householder, M. Lindner and A. Manion, \"Multiple Vulnerabilities in
    Many Implementations of the Simple Network Management Protocol
    (SNMP),\" CERT/CC, 12 February 2002. \[Online\]. Available:
    [https://www.cert.org/historical/advisories/CA-2002-03.cfm](https://www.cert.org/historical/advisories/CA-2002-03.cfm){.external-link
    rel="nofollow"}. \[Accessed 16 May
    2017\].]{style="color: rgb(23,43,77);text-decoration: none;"}]{style="color: rgb(23,43,77);text-decoration: none;"}

11. [[I. A. Finlay, \"Vulnerability Note VU#854306 Multiple
    vulnerabilities in SNMPv1 request handling,\" CERT/CC, 12
    February 2002. \[Online\]. Available:
    [https://www.kb.cert.org/vuls/id/854306](https://www.kb.cert.org/vuls/id/854306){.external-link
    rel="nofollow"}. \[Accessed 16 May
    2017\].]{style="color: rgb(23,43,77);text-decoration: none;"}]{style="color: rgb(23,43,77);text-decoration: none;"}

12. [[I. A. Finlay, \"Vulnerability Note VU#107186 Multiple
    vulnerabilities in SNMPv1 trap handling,\" CERT/CC, 12
    February 2002. \[Online\]. Available:
    [https://www.kb.cert.org/vuls/id/107186](https://www.kb.cert.org/vuls/id/107186){.external-link
    rel="nofollow"}. \[Accessed 16 May
    2017\].]{style="color: rgb(23,43,77);text-decoration: none;"}]{style="color: rgb(23,43,77);text-decoration: none;"}

13. [[B. Stock, G. Pellegrino and C. Rossow, \"Hey, You Have a Problem:
    On the Feasibility of Large-Scale Web Vulnerability Notification,\"
    in ]{style="color: rgb(23,43,77);text-decoration: none;"}*25th
    USENIX Security Symposium*[,
    2016.]{style="color: rgb(23,43,77);text-decoration: none;"}]{style="color: rgb(23,43,77);text-decoration: none;"}[\
    ]{style="color: rgb(23,43,77);text-decoration: none;"}












