



1.  [CERT Guide to CVD](index.html)
2.  [The CERT Guide to Coordinated Vulnerability
    Disclosure](The-CERT-Guide-to-Coordinated-Vulnerability-Disclosure_47677443.html)
3.  [5. Process Variation
    Points](5.-Process-Variation-Points_47677473.html)


# [ CERT Guide to CVD : 5.6 Maintaining Pre-Disclosure Secrecy ]{#title-text} {#title-heading .pagetitle}




Created by [ Allen D. Householder]{.author}, last modified by [
user-5e993]{.editor} on 2019-05-29



*Three can keep a secret, if two of them are dead.*

\-*Benjamin Franklin*

*\
*

[The more people who know a secret, the more likely it is to leak.
Simple probability theory tells us that even if the probability of any
given party leaking is very low, the cumulative probability of a leak
increases exponentially with the number of parties involved \[1\].\
\
Returning to our simple model, and the \"Who needs to know what, when?\"
question, multiparty disclosure highlights the need to balance
need-to-know with need-to-share. There are varying degrees of
need-to-know. Not everyone needs to know the same thing at the same
time. Patch originators are usually notified early in the process, since
their answer to \"What do I need to do in response to this knowledge?\"
(i.e., create a patch) is often on the critical path for any downstream
parties to be able to take action. Downstream vendors (patch consumers)
and deployers can be notified
later.]{style="color: rgb(23,43,77);text-decoration: none;"}*\
*

# Coordinating Further Downstream {#id-5.6MaintainingPreDisclosureSecrecy-CoordinatingFurtherDownstream}

Vulnerabilities having the potential for significant impact can lead to
coordination efforts beyond the traditional product vendor space.
Infrastructure and service providers are sometimes brought in early, if
there are mitigations that can be deployed in advance of the
availability of a fix. This can be especially helpful in cases where the
vulnerability may affect the infrastructure necessary to distribute the
patch in the first place.

# Do You Include Deployers? {#id-5.6MaintainingPreDisclosureSecrecy-DoYouIncludeDeployers?}

Be careful to consider fairness though: By what criteria should you
notify service provider X but not service provider Y? At some point, the
complexity of who knows what gets high enough that the likelihood of a
leak goes to 1, and you might as well go public.

# Complex Communications Reduce Trust {#id-5.6MaintainingPreDisclosureSecrecy-ComplexCommunicationsReduceTrust}

It\'s also important to be aware that not all participants along the
chain of disclosure will be equally trustworthy. That\'s not to say they
are actively malicious, just that they may have incompatible values or
priorities that lead them to disclose the existence of the vulnerability
to others earlier than you\'d prefer.

\



\< [5.5 Response Pacing and
Synchronization](5.5-Response-Pacing-and-Synchronization_47677479.html)
\| [5.7 Disclosure Timing](5.7-Disclosure-Timing_47677481.html) \>



## References {#id-5.6MaintainingPreDisclosureSecrecy-References}

1.  [D. R. Grimes, \"On the Viability of Conspiratorial Beliefs,\"
    ]{style="color: rgb(23,43,77);text-decoration: none;"}*PLOS One,*[
    vol. 11, no. 1, p. e0147905, 26 January
    2016.]{style="color: rgb(23,43,77);text-decoration: none;"}






Document generated by Confluence on 2023-10-27 14:58 -0400


[Atlassian](https://www.atlassian.com/)




