# Independent Discovery

[If one person can find a vulnerability, somebody else can, too. Andy
Ozment \[1\] showed that "vulnerability rediscovery occurs 'in the
wild' and that it is not particularly uncommon." Finifter and
colleagues, reviewing a dataset of Chrome vulnerabilities, identified 15
out of 668 (2.25%) that had been independently discovered by multiple
parties \[2\]. They go on to mention similar rates for Firefox
vulnerabilities. Ablon and Bogart \[3\] studied a stockpile of zero day
vulnerabilities, estimating that "after a year approximately 5.7
percent have been discovered and disclosed by others." Herr and
Schneier \[4\] find browser vulnerabilities having rediscovery rates
between 11% and 20% annually for the years 2013-2015. For Android
vulnerabilities during the 2015-2016 timeframe, they found an annual
rediscovery rate of 22%.

What is to be done when the CVD process is underway for a vulnerability,
and a seemingly independent report of the same vulnerability arrives?
One approach is to accelerate the disclosure timeline, possibly
disclosing immediately. This approach assumes that if a vulnerability
has been found and reported by multiple individuals acting
independently, then it must be an easy vulnerability to find. This in
turn implies that others who haven't reported it may also be aware of
its existence, thereby increasing the likelihood of its availability to
adversaries.

While we find this to be a reasonable conclusion, CVD participants
should be wary of duplicate reports that are not independent. Truly
independent discovery does yield some indication of the difficulty of
finding a vulnerability. But vulnerability finders and security
researchers talk to each other, and they sometimes hunt in the same
places. An announcement of interesting vulnerabilities in a product can
spur others to turn their attention and tools to that product. Even a
casual "I've been looking at product X and found some interesting
things" can put someone else on the hunt for vulnerabilities in product
X. Any judgement of independence should consider the degree to which
there is community interest in a product. As the popularity of products
wax and wane through their lifespan, so too will security researcher
attention.

An example of a coordination failure occurred during the vulnerability
disclosure of Heartbleed. Two organizations, Codenomicon and Google,
both discovered the vulnerability around the same time. When the
vulnerability was reported a second time to the OpenSSL team, the team
assumed a possible leak and the vulnerability was quickly disclosed
publicly \[5\]. A more coordinated response may have allowed further
remediation to be available immediately at disclosure time.

Even more insidious is a phenomenon we've observed in bug bounty
scenarios. Because they pay for reports, bug bounties can
unintentionally provide incentives for finders to share their reports
with others prior to reporting, allowing multiple individuals to report
the same bug, and potentially share in a larger payout. CVD is a social
game: as such, its incentives affect participants' behavior.

Rather than prescribing a single rule that independent discovery should
immediately trigger release of the vulnerability information, we suggest
that CVD participants discuss the implications of rediscovery on a
case-by-case basis in order to decide the best course of action for the
particular case.]{style="color: rgb(23,43,77);text-decoration: none;"}[
]


\< [6.4 Intentional or Accidental
Leaks ](6_4.md) \| [6.6 Active
Exploitation ](6_6.md) \>


## References
1.  [A. Ozment, "The Likelihood of Vulnerability Rediscovery and the
    Social Utility of Vulnerability Hunting," in
    ]{style="color: rgb(23,43,77);text-decoration: none;"}*Workshop on
    Economics and Information Security*[,
    2005.]2.  [M. Finifter, D. Akhawe and D. Wagner, "An Empirical Study of
    Vulnerability Rewards Programs," in
    ]{style="color: rgb(23,43,77);text-decoration: none;"}*22nd USENIX
    Security Symposium*[,
    2013.]3.  [L. Ablon and T. Bogart, "Zero Days, Thousands of Nights," RAND
    Corporation,
    2017.]4.  [T. Herr and B. Schneier, "Taking Stock: Estimating Vulnerability
    Rediscovery," 7 March 2017. \[Online\]. Available:
    [https://ssrn.com/abstract=2928758](https://ssrn.com/abstract=2928758). \[Accessed 16 May
    2017\].]5.  [B. Grubb, "Heartbleed disclosure timeline: who knew what and
    when," The Sydney Morning Herald, 15 April 2014. \[Online\].
    Available:
    [http://www.smh.com.au/it-pro/security-it/heartbleed-disclosure-timeline-who-knew-what-and-when-20140414-zqurk.html](http://www.smh.com.au/it-pro/security-it/heartbleed-disclosure-timeline-who-knew-what-and-when-20140414-zqurk.md). \[Accessed 23 May
    2017\].]
