# Reduce Friction in the Reporting Process

<!--start-->As a vendor, it is important to not treat reporters with suspicion or
hostility. It's likely they have important information about your
product, and they want to share it with you.<!--end-->
Furthermore, vendors should take care not to frustrate reporters'
attempts to make contact by building too many assumptions into their CVD
process.

In the course of our own vulnerability coordination efforts, we have
observed all of the following erroneous assumptions built into vendor's
CVD process:

<div class="grid" markdown>
!!! failure "The vendor and the reporter are engaged in a binding two-way negotiation."

    This is false for at least two reasons: First, the
    reporter noticed an observable fact about a product flaw, and
    they're free to tell whomever they please. Similarly, the vendor is
    not obliged to keep the reporter in the loop once the report is
    received. And while it might be possible to eventually constrain the
    reporter or vendor contractually, that's not a foregone conclusion
    at the outset. Secondly, there exist adversaries who are entirely
    indifferent to whatever reporter-vendor agreements about disclosure
    might be reached, so even the most strictly binding agreement
    between vendor and reporter can be rendered irrelevant by events
    beyond either party's control.

!!! failure "The reporter will wait indefinitely for your reply before communicating with others about what they know."

    Technology
    sometimes fails, and we wonder if a message was received. It is
    helpful to let the reporter know as soon as possible that the report
    was received. Give regular updates on the process so that the
    reporter is involved and there is mutual understanding. If reporters
    are kept out of the loop, they may seek out a third-party
    coordinator or even publish their report without notice.

!!! failure "The reporter is always a customer or has a customer ID."

    At the
    CERT/CC, we have hit walls in our communication attempts when a
    vendor's technical support function refuses to help us without a
    customer ID number. Be sure your tech support staff understand how
    to forward vulnerability reports to the appropriate individuals or
    groups within the organization. Vulnerability reports can arrive
    from anyone.

!!! failure "The reporter has an account on your private portal."

    The
    reporter may not be a customer with a portal account; furthermore,
    the reporter may wish to remain anonymous and will be unwilling to
    register for a portal account. Again, be sure it is easy for
    reporters to find more than one communication channel.


!!! failure "The reporter is willing to sign an NDA."

    Some reporters will not sign an NDA.
    And they shouldn't have to.
    Remember that the reporter's participation in CVD is voluntary.
    Be sure your process can accommodate reporters who are unwilling to sign an NDA.
    Better yet, avoid NDAs altogether for vulnerability reports.


!!! failure "The reporter can send or receive encrypted mail."


    The CERT/CC encourages encrypted mail when possible, but it is not appropriate
    to presume all reporters can or must use encrypted mail. If the
    reporter declines to use encrypted mail, offer other options. These
    may include encrypted zip files or a company upload service such as
    FTP.

!!! failure "The reporter is willing and/or able to fill out a web form."

    Some reporters prefer to use anonymous email; be sure you have more
    communication lines open than just a web form.

!!! failure "The reporter is a human."

    Sometimes reports can be auto-generated by tools. Include a clearly defined reporting format
    for tools if at all possible.


</div>


!!! failure "The reporter will keep your correspondence private."

    Lack of
    response or rudeness on the part of a vendor may result in the
    reporter choosing to post the correspondence publicly. In addition
    to the negative attention this draws to the vendor and reporter
    alike, such negative experiences may discourage finders and
    reporters from reporting vulnerabilities to the vendor in the
    future.

