



1.  [CERT Guide to CVD](index.md)
2.  [The CERT Guide to Coordinated Vulnerability
    Disclosure](The-CERT-Guide-to-Coordinated-Vulnerability-Disclosure_47677443.md)
3.  [2. Principles of Coordinated Vulnerability
    Disclosure](2.-Principles-of-Coordinated-Vulnerability-Disclosure_47677450.md)


# 2.4. Incentivize Desired Behavior 








A degree of community outreach is an important part of any CVD process.
Not everyone shares the same values, concerns, perspectives, or even
ethical foundations, so it\'s not reasonable to expect everyone to play
by your rules. Keeping that in mind, we\'ve found that it\'s usually
better to reward good behavior than try to punish bad behavior. Such
incentives are important as they increase the likelihood of continued
cooperation between CVD participants.

Incentives can take many forms:

-   **Recognition** -- Public recognition is often used as a reward for
    \"playing by the rules\" in CVD.
-   **Gifts** -- Small gifts (or \"swag\") such as T-shirts, stickers,
    and so forth give researchers a good feeling about the organization.
-   **Money** -- Bug bounties can turn CVD into piece work.
-   **Employment** -- We have observed cases where organizations choose
    to hire the researchers who report vulnerabilities to them, either
    on a temporary (contract) or full-time basis. This is of course
    neither required nor expected, but having a reputation of doing so
    can be an effective way for a vendor to encourage positive
    interactions.\
    \



\< [2.3. Avoid Surprise](2.3.-Avoid-Surprise_47677453.md) \| [2.5.
Ethical Considerations](2.5.-Ethical-Considerations_47677455.md) \>














