# 2.1. Reduce Harm 

Harm reduction is a term borrowed from the public health community. In
that context, it is used to describe efforts intended to reduce the harm
caused by drug use and unsafe health practices, rather than on the
eradication of the problem. For example, one of the tenets of harm
reduction is that there will never be a drug-free society, and so
preparations must be made to reduce the harm of drugs that currently
exist since we will never be completely free of them \[1,2\]. This
concept applies to software vulnerabilities as well: that it may be
possible to reduce the potential for harm even if vulnerabilities cannot
be fully eliminated.

At its core, harm reduction with respect to vulnerable software is about
balancing the ability for system defenders to take action while avoiding
an increase in attacker advantage. Experience has shown that nearly all
software-centric products contain vulnerabilities, and this will likely
remain true, especially as code complexity continues to increase.

In fact, the potential for vulnerabilities will likely never go away
since a previously secure system can become vulnerable when deployed
into a new context, or simply due to environmental changes or the
development of novel attack techniques. Systems tend to outlive their
threat models. The Flatiron Building in New York City stands as an
example of this phenomenon in the physical world. Built prior to the
Wright brothers' flight at Kitty Hawk, NC, today it is vulnerable to
attack using an airliner as a weapon. It's difficult to argue that the
designers should have "built security in" for attacks that would have
been considered science fiction at the time of deployment \[3\].

Since vulnerabilities are likely to persist despite our best efforts,
CVD works best when it focuses on reducing the harm vulnerabilities can
cause. Some approaches to reducing the harm caused by vulnerable
software and systems include the following:

-   Publishing vulnerability information. Providing high-quality,
    timely, targeted, automated dissemination of vulnerability
    information enables defenders to make informed decisions and take
    action quickly.

-   Encouraging the adoption and widespread use of exploit mitigation
    techniques on all platforms.

-   Reducing days of risk. Selecting reasonable disclosure deadlines is
    one way of achieving the goal of minimizing the time between a
    vulnerability's discovery and the remediation of its last deployed
    instance \[4\]. Another way is to shorten the time between
    vulnerability disclosure and patch deployment by automating patch
    distribution using secure update mechanisms that make use of
    cryptographically signed updates or other technologies.

-   Releasing high-quality patches. Increasing defenders' trust that
    patches won't break things or have undesirable side effects reduces
    lag in patch deployment by reducing the defenders' testing burden.

-   When possible, automated patch deployment can improve patch
    deployment rates too.

    \

    :::: {.panel style="border-style: solid;border-width: 1px;"}
    ::: panelContent
    \< [2. Principles of Coordinated Vulnerability
    Disclosure](2.-Principles-of-Coordinated-Vulnerability-Disclosure_47677450.md)
    \| [2.2. Presume
    Benevolence](2_2) \>
    :::
    ::::

# References {#id-2.1.ReduceHarm-References}

1.  Harm Reduction Coalition, "Principles of Harm Reduction,"
    \[Online\]. Available:
    [http://harmreduction.org/about-us/principles-of-harm-reduction/](http://harmreduction.org/about-us/principles-of-harm-reduction/){.external-link
    rel="nofollow"}. 
2.  Harm Reduction Coalition, "What is harm reduction?" \[Online\].
    Available:
    [https://www.hri.global/what-is-harm-reduction](https://www.hri.global/what-is-harm-reduction){.external-link
    style="letter-spacing: 0.0px;" rel="nofollow"}.
3.  A. Householder, "Systemic Vulnerabilities: An Allegorical Tale of
    SteampunkVulnerability to Aero-Physical Threats," August 2015.
    \[Online\]. Available:
    [https://resources.sei.cmu.edu/library/asset-view.cfm?assetid=442528](https://resources.sei.cmu.edu/library/asset-view.cfm?assetid=442528){.external-link
    rel="nofollow"}.
4.  A. Arora, A. Nandkumar and R. Telang, "Does information security
    attack frequency increase with vulnerability disclosure? An
    empirical analysis," *Information Systems Frontiers,* vol. 8, no.
    5, pp. 350-362,
    2006. [https://link.springer.com/article/10.1007/s10796-006-9012-5](https://link.springer.com/article/10.1007/s10796-006-9012-5){.external-link
    rel="nofollow"}.

