# 2.7. CVD as a Wicked Problem 

Horst W.J. Rittel and Melvin M. Webber, in their 1973 article "Dilemmas
in a General Theory of Planning," describe the following
characteristics of *wicked problems* \[1\]:

1.  "**There is no definitive formulation of a wicked problem**" --
    solving the problem is analogous to understanding it.
2.  "**Wicked problems have no stopping rule**" -- the problem has no
    intrinsic criteria to indicate that a solution is sufficient;
    solutions depend rather on the planner deciding to stop planning.
3.  "**Solutions to wicked problems are not true-or-false, but
    good-or-bad**" -- the judgement of a solution's fitness by parties
    involved will be filtered through their values and their predisposed
    ideology. These judgements are usually "expressed as 'good' or
    'bad' or, more likely, as 'better or worse' or 'satisfying' or
    'good enough.'"
4.  "**There is no immediate and no ultimate test of a solution to a
    wicked problem**" -- solutions can have far**-**reaching and not
    always clear effects in both time and scope. Likewise, the
    desirability of the outcomes may not become clear until much later.
5.  "**Every solution to a wicked problem is a 'one-shot operation';
    because there is no opportunity to learn by trial-and-error, every
    attempt counts significantly**" -- actions taken in response to the
    problem affect the options available to future solutions.
6.  "**Wicked problems do not have an enumerable (or an exhaustively
    describable) set of potential solutions, nor is there a
    well-described set of permissible operations that may be
    incorporated into the plan**" -- it is not possible to demonstrate
    that all possible solutions have been considered or even identified.
7.  "**Every wicked problem is essentially unique**" -- The meaning of
    *essentially unique* is given as "despite long lists of
    similarities between a current problem and a previous one, there
    always might be an additional distinguishing property that is of
    overriding importance."
8.  "**Every wicked problem can be considered to be a symptom of
    another problem**" -- every identified cause leads to a "higher
    level" problem of which the current problem is a symptom. As a
    result, incremental approaches or marginal improvements may have
    little or no impact on the problem.
9.  "**The existence of a discrepancy representing a wicked problem can
    be explained in numerous ways. The choice of explanation determines
    the nature of the problem**'**s resolution**" -- The way a problem
    is described influences the solutions proposed.
10. "**The planner has no right to be wrong**" -- The goal of a
    solution is not to find an ultimate truth about the world, rather it
    is to improve conditions for those who inhabit it.

We assert that vulnerability disclosure can be thought of as a wicked
problem, offering this document as evidence to that effect.

\

# References {#id-2.7.CVDasaWickedProblem-References}

1.  H. W. Rittel and M. M. Webber, "Dilemmas in a General Theory of
    Planning," *Policy Sciences,* vol. 4, no. 1973, pp. 155-169, June
    1973.

