# 3.1. Finder 








A finder is an \"individual or organization that identifies a potential
vulnerability in a product or online service,\" noting that \"finders
can be researchers, security companies, users, governments, or
coordinators.\" In the interest of consistency, we will use this
definition of finder, although in other documentation we\'ve used the
term discoverer for this same role. We do, however, distinguish between
the role of finder and the role of reporter, as seen in this section and
the next.

Vulnerabilities can be found by just about anyone. All it takes is for
someone to notice an unexpected or surprising behavior of a system.
Although it is common for independent security researchers to hunt
vulnerabilities as either a hobby or profession, finders need not
self-identify as security researchers or hackers.

Vulnerabilities have been found by people of many backgrounds:

-   students and professional academics studying novel ways to exploit
    systems or protocols
-   open source developers who notice that a software bug has security
    implications
-   system administrators who recognize a vulnerability during the
    course of troubleshooting a system error
-   professional security analysts who observe a previously unknown
    product vulnerability while testing an organization\'s
    infrastructure during a penetration test engagement
-   people using software or web services who mistyped some input or
    simply clicked on the wrong thing
-   children who like to press buttons. Kristoffer Von Hassel, a
    five-year-old from San Diego discovered a vulnerability in
    Microsoft\'s Xbox Live service just by holding down the space bar
    and was able to log in to his father\'s account without the password
    \[1\].

\

There are also organizations that look for vulnerabilities. Some of them
work under contract to vendors directly. Some work for the vendors\'
customers who deploy the software. And some have independent motivation
to find vulnerabilities, perhaps to demonstrate their competence in
finding vulnerabilities in the interest of their security consulting
practice\'s business development.

Furthermore, vendors may choose to look for vulnerabilities in their own
products---a practice that we strongly encourage. This can be done via
(a) in-house expertise and testing, (b) contracted security testing, or
(c) solicited on a per-vulnerability basis using a bug bounty program.
Many vendors integrate testing for vulnerabilities into their
development process. Microsoft, for example, includes static, dynamic,
and fuzz testing for vulnerabilities in its phases of the Security
Development Lifecycle \[2\]. The BSIMM model suggests that many vendors
in various industries already employ techniques in architecture
analysis, code review, and security testing to find vulnerabilities as
part of their development cycle \[3\].

\

Regardless of who finds a vulnerability, there are a few common events
that follow the discovery:

1.  The finder composes a vulnerability report, as discussed in [4.2
    Reporting](4.2-Reporting_47677468.md).
2.  The finder (or reporter, if these are distinct individuals) provides
    that report to someone. Often the vulnerability report would be
    provided to the vendor, but that\'s not always the case. Sometimes
    the report might be sent to a coordinator. If the vulnerability is
    discovered internally to a vendor, then the report may simply be
    forwarded to the responsible team within the organization---for
    example, filed as a security-related bug report. We cover the
    coordinator role in [Section 3.5](3.5.-Coordinator_47677464.md). A
    discussion of the reporting process can be found in [4.2
    Reporting](4.2-Reporting_47677468.md).
3.  (Optional) Finders, reporters, vendors, or coordinators might
    prepare a document to publish. The finder often wants to draw
    attention to his or her discovery and subsequent analysis by
    publishing a document, blog post, or conference presentation, to
    share the findings with a larger audience. Vendors typically want to
    publish a document as well to inform their users that action has
    been taken to resolve the problem, and to prompt their users to take
    any required remediation actions. Publishing of vulnerability
    information is covered in [4.5 Gaining Public
    Awareness](4.5-Gaining-Public-Awareness_47677471.md).

It is of course possible for a finder to find a vulnerability and tell
no one. However, in that case there is no disclosure involved so we do
not address that scenario further in this document.

\







## References {#id-3.1.Finder-References}

1.  [BBC, \"Xbox password flaw exposed by five-year-old boy,\" 4
    April 2014. \[Online\]. Available:
    [http://www.bbc.com/news/technology-26879185](http://www.bbc.com/news/technology-26879185){.external-link
    rel="nofollow"}. \[Accessed 16 May
    2017\].]{style="color: rgb(23,43,77);text-decoration: none;"}
2.  [Microsoft, \"What is the Security Development Lifecycle?\"
    \[Online\]. Available:
    [https://www.microsoft.com/en-us/sdl/](https://www.microsoft.com/en-us/sdl/){.external-link
    rel="nofollow"}. \[Accessed 16 May
    2017\].]{style="color: rgb(23,43,77);text-decoration: none;"}
3.  [BSIMM, \"BSIMM Framework,\" \[Online\]. Available:
    [https://www.bsimm.com/framework/](https://www.bsimm.com/framework/){.external-link
    rel="nofollow"}. \[Accessed 16 May
    2017\].]{style="color: rgb(23,43,77);text-decoration: none;"}












