



1.  [CERT Guide to CVD](index.html)
2.  [The CERT Guide to Coordinated Vulnerability
    Disclosure](The-CERT-Guide-to-Coordinated-Vulnerability-Disclosure_47677443.html)
3.  [3. Roles in CVD](3.-Roles-in-CVD_47677459.html)


# [ CERT Guide to CVD : 3.3. Vendor ]{#title-text} {#title-heading .pagetitle}




Created by [ Allen D. Householder]{.author}, last modified by [
user-5e993]{.editor} on 2019-05-29



The *vendor* is the party responsible for updating the product
containing the vulnerability. Most often a vendor is a company or other
organization, but an individual can also be a vendor. For example, a
student who developed an app and placed it in a mobile app store for
free download meets this definition of vendor, as does a large
multinational company with thousands of developers across the globe.
Many open source libraries are maintained by a single person or a small
independent team; we still refer to these individuals and groups as
vendors.

As software-centric systems find their way into various industries, more
and more vendors of traditional products find themselves becoming
software vendors.

Moving beyond traditional software companies, recent years have seen the
rise in networked products and services from a variety of industries,
including those below:

-   consumer products, such as home automation and the internet of
    things (IoT)
-   internet service providers (ISPs) and the makers of devices that
    access ISP services: internet modems, routers, access points, and
    the like
-   mobile phone manufacturers and service providers
-   industrial control systems, building automation, HVAC manufacturers
-   infrastructure suppliers and increasingly \"smart\" utility services
    including water and sewer services and the energy industry
-   transportation services, including the airline and automotive
    industries
-   medical devices and health-related device manufacturers\
    \

[Furthermore, since many modern products are in fact composed of
software and hardware components from multiple vendors, the CVD process
increasingly involves multiple tiers of vendors, as we discuss in
[Section 5.4](5.4-Multiparty-CVD_47677477.html). For example, the CVD
process for a vulnerability in a software library component may need to
include the originating author of the vulnerable component as well as
all the downstream vendors who incorporated that component into their
products. Each of these vendors in turn will need to update their
products in order for the fix to be deployed to all vulnerable
systems.]{style="color: rgb(23,43,77);text-decoration: none;"}\
\
[The NTIA Awareness and Adoption Working Group survey (previously
mentioned in [Section 2.2](2.3.-Avoid-Surprise_47677453.html)) found the
following \[1\]:]{style="color: rgb(23,43,77);text-decoration: none;"}

-   60-80% of the more mature vendors followed CVD practices

-   76% of those mature vendors developed their vulnerability handling
    procedures in-house.

-   Vendors\' perceived need for a vulnerability disclosure policy was
    driven by a sense of corporate responsibility or customer demand.

-   Only a third of responding companies considered and/or required
    suppliers to have their own vulnerability handling procedures.

# Vendor as the Introducer of Vulnerabilities {#id-3.3.Vendor-VendorastheIntroducerofVulnerabilities}

The vendor often plays an important but less discussed role as well, as
the creator of the software or system that introduces the vulnerability.
While good practices like code reviews, continuous testing and
integration, well-trained developers, mentoring, architectural choices,
and so forth can reduce the rate of introduction of new vulnerabilities,
these practices thus far have not eliminated them completely. Thus, a
well-established CVD capability is also essential to the development
process.

# Vendor Vulnerability Response Process {#id-3.3.Vendor-VendorVulnerabilityResponseProcess}

In order to effectively mitigate the impact of vulnerabilities in their
products and services, vendors must be able to perform the following
specific tasks:

-   receive reports
-   triage, analyze, and test claims made in reports received
-   fix bugs
-   distribute patch(es)
-   (recommended) publish a document
-   (recommended) improve internal development process

[\
]{style="color: rgb(23,43,77);text-decoration: none;"}

[The ISO/IEC standards 29147 \_Vulnerability disclosure\_ and 30111
\_Vulnerability handling processes\_ offer specific models for external-
and internal-facing vendor vulnerability response practices. Readers are
encouraged to review and apply those standards to their operational
vulnerability response practice. ISO/IEC 29147 describes an
outward-facing CVD process \[2\]. ISO/IEC 30111 addresses the internal
processes associated with vendor vulnerability response
\[3\].]{style="color: rgb(23,43,77);text-decoration: none;"}

## Evaluating the Vendor Security Response Process {#id-3.3.Vendor-EvaluatingtheVendorSecurityResponseProcess}

It is a mistake to evaluate a product favorably based solely on its
having a low number of publicly known vulnerabilities. In fact, the
known vulnerability count in a product is usually not indicative of the
quality of a product. There are many reasons a product may have few
public vulnerability reports: these include (1) the vendor might lack
proper CVD capabilities or have a history of threatening legal action
against finders and reporters if they publish vulnerability reports, or
(2) the product\'s prevalence or niche may be too small to warrant
finder attention. 

Instead, we have found that a vendor\'s CVD capability and vulnerability
response process maturity is often a more important indicator of its
commitment to quality than its vulnerability counts alone. Development
practices, as human processes, inevitably fail. Vendors that acknowledge
this fact and create a good CVD practice are well positioned to
compensate for this inevitability.

# Vendor Sub-Roles {#id-3.3.Vendor-VendorSub-Roles}

There are various sub-roles one might find within a vendor organization.
In small organizations, an individual might play all the sub-roles at
once. Larger organizations often have teams that correspond to the
sub-roles identified here. Each of these sub-roles has a part to play in
the vendor\'s vulnerability response practice.

## PSIRT {#id-3.3.Vendor-PSIRT}

[A vendor might choose to establish a Product Security Incident Response
Team (PSIRT). This is similar to a Computer Security Incident Response
Team (CSIRT), but is engaged for product security \"incidents\" (e.g.,
vulnerability reports and reports of exploitation of the company\'s
products). The PSIRT acts as an interface between the public and the
developers. Examples include the Microsoft Security Response Center
(MSRC) \[4\] and Cisco PSIRT \[5\] . Many vendor PSIRTs are active in
the Forum of Incident Response and Security Teams (FIRST)
\[7\]]{style="color: rgb(23,43,77);text-decoration: none;"}.

## Developers {#id-3.3.Vendor-Developers}

For vendors of sufficient size to have a dedicated PSIRT, the
vulnerability response and development processes are likely found in
different parts of the organization.

The development role usually has the responsibility to:

-   identify what to fix and how to fix it
-   create the patch
-   integrate the patch into releasable products\
    \

The PSIRT should be in close contact with the developers in order to
coordinated fixes.

## Patch Originator vs. Downstream Vendor {#id-3.3.Vendor-PatchOriginatorvs.DownstreamVendor}

Although a single vendor is usually the originator of a patch for a
given vulnerability, this is not always the case. Some vendors will have
products affected by a vulnerability while they are not the originator
of the initial fix. Ideally the CVD process should cover not just the
patch originator but also the downstream vendors. The complexity of the
software supply chain can make this difficult to coordinate as we
discuss in [Section 5.4](5.4-Multiparty-CVD_47677477.html).

## Process Improvement {#id-3.3.Vendor-ProcessImprovement}

Having a mechanism to receive and track the disposition of vulnerability
reports is an important first step in establishing a vendor\'s
vulnerability response capability. But it should not stop there; vendors
should strive for continuous improvement of their software development
process.\
Improving the development process can reduce the number of
vulnerabilities in future products. Vendors can establish a feedback
loop by performing a root cause analysis of vulnerabilities reported.
Lessons learned can then inform modifications to the development
process. Some of the ways vulnerability response can feed back into the
development lifecycle include the following:

-   **Root cause analysis** -- to identify common causes and learn how
    to reduce future introduction of similar vulnerabilities. Questions
    to ask include the following: How did this vulnerability make it
    into the released product without being detected? How could it have
    been found and fixed earlier, before release? How might the
    vulnerability have been avoided entirely?
-   **Automated testing** -- to find vulnerabilities sooner, ideally
    before release. Continuous integration (CI) systems and DevOps
    practices provide excellent opportunities to incorporate automated
    security testing. For example, a CI server could initiate a fuzzing
    campaign on each nightly build of a product. An automated release
    process might require that code pass all static analysis tests with
    no significant findings before proceeding.
-   **Threat modeling** -- to identify high**-**risk portions of a
    product earlier in the development process so potential
    vulnerabilities can be found and addressed at design time, before
    they are even implemented.

\



\< [3.2. Reporter](3.2.-Reporter_47677461.html) \| [3.4.
Deployer](3.4.-Deployer_47677463.html) \>



## References {#id-3.3.Vendor-References}

1.  [NTIA Awareness and Adoption Working Group, \"Vulnerability
    Disclosure Attitudes and Actions: A Research Report from the NTIA
    Awareness and Adoption Group,\" 15 December 2016. \[Online\].
    Available:
    [https://www.ntia.doc.gov/files/ntia/publications/2016_ntia_a_a_vulnerability_disclosure_insights_report.pdf](https://www.ntia.doc.gov/files/ntia/publications/2016_ntia_a_a_vulnerability_disclosure_insights_report.pdf){.external-link
    rel="nofollow"}. \[Accessed 6 June
    2017\].]{style="color: rgb(23,43,77);text-decoration: none;"}
2.  [ISO/IEC, \"ISO/IEC 29147:2014 Information technology---Security
    techniques---Vulnerability disclosure,\"
    2014.]{style="color: rgb(23,43,77);text-decoration: none;"}
3.  [ISO/IEC, \"ISO/IEC 30111:2013 Information technology---Security
    techniques---Vulnerability handling processes,\"
    2013.]{style="color: rgb(23,43,77);text-decoration: none;"}
4.  [Microsoft, \"Microsoft Security Response Center,\" \[Online\].
    Available:
    [https://technet.microsoft.com/en-us/security/dn440717.aspx](https://technet.microsoft.com/en-us/security/dn440717.aspx){.external-link
    rel="nofollow"}. \[Accessed 23 May
    2017\].]{style="color: rgb(23,43,77);text-decoration: none;"}
5.  [Cisco Systems, \"Security Vulnerability Policy,\" \[Online\].
    Available:
    [https://www.cisco.com/c/en/us/about/security-center/security-vulnerability-policy.html](https://www.cisco.com/c/en/us/about/security-center/security-vulnerability-policy.html){.external-link
    rel="nofollow"}. \[Accessed 23 May
    2017\].]{style="color: rgb(23,43,77);text-decoration: none;"}
6.  [FIRST, \"FIRST Teams,\" \[Online\]. Available:
    [https://www.first.org/members/teams](https://www.first.org/members/teams){.external-link
    rel="nofollow"}. \[Accessed 16 May
    2017\].]{style="color: rgb(23,43,77);text-decoration: none;"}

\












