



1.  [CERT Guide to CVD](index.md)
2.  [The CERT Guide to Coordinated Vulnerability
    Disclosure](The-CERT-Guide-to-Coordinated-Vulnerability-Disclosure_47677443.md)
3.  {== TODO fixme [4. Phases of CVD](4.-Phases-of-CVD_47677466.md) ==}


# 4.3 Validation and Triage 








*Extraordinary claims require extraordinary evidence.*\
*-- Carl Sagan*

*\
*

When a vendor or coordinator receives a vulnerability report, it\'s
usually necessary to prioritize it along with other vulnerability
reports already in progress, new feature development, and possibly other
non-security bug fixes. As a result, there are a few considerations to
be made in dealing with incoming reports.

# Validating Reports {#id-4.3ValidationandTriage-ValidatingReports}

Vulnerability reports received from potentially unknown sources may hold
inaccurate information. One of the first tasks for the receiver of a
report is to analyze the report\'s validity. A vulnerability report is
basically an assertion that some set of conditions exists that permits
an adversary to take some action in support of a goal. But just because
it was reported doesn\'t make it true. Replication of the salient claims
made in the report is an important step in the case handling process.

## Recognizing High-Quality Reports {#id-4.3ValidationandTriage-RecognizingHigh-QualityReports}

Not all reports are actionable. Some reports may under-specify the
problem, making it difficult or impossible to reproduce. Some may
contain irrelevant details. Some will be well written and concise, but
many will not. Some reports could describe problems that are already
known or for which a fix is already in the pipeline.

In easy cases, a simple description of the vulnerability, a screenshot,
or a copy/pasted snippet of code is all that is necessary to validate
that a report is likely accurate. In more complex scenarios, stronger
evidence and/or more effort might be required to confirm the
vulnerability. Responsive vendors should ensure analysts have access to
appropriate resources to test and validate bugs, such as virtual
machines (VMs), a testing network, and debuggers.

It may be that reproducing the vulnerability is beyond the capability or
time available by the first-tier recipient at the vendor. Most often
this occurs when the conditions required to exploit the vulnerability
are difficult to reproduce in a test environment. In this case, the
triager can weigh the reputation of the reporter against the claims
being made in the report and the impact if they were to be true. You
don\'t want to dismiss a report of a serious vulnerability just because
it is unexpected. A reporter with a high reputation might give weight to
an otherwise low-quality report (although in our experience finders and
reporters with a high reputation tend to have earned that reputation by
submitting high-quality reports).Â 

If there is difficulty in reproducing the vulnerability, follow up with
the reporter promptly and courteously; be sure to be specific about what
you tried so that the reporter can provide effective advice. In some
cases, a report might be placed in a holding pattern while additional
information is requested from the reporter.

The possibility also exists that someone could be sending you reports to
waste your time, or erroneously believes the report is much more serious
than your analysis suggests. Not all reports you receive warrant your
attention. It is usually reasonable to decline reports if you provide
the reporter with a summary of your analysis and the ability to appeal
(presumably by providing the needed clarifying information).

Reporters should review [Section 4.2](4.2-Reporting_47677468.md) to
ensure the report contains enough details for the recipient to verify
and reproduce a vulnerability. Be as specific as you can. Vendors that
follow up with questions are doing the right thing, and attempting to
validate your report; be friendly and courteous and attempt to provide
as much detail and help as you can.

# Triage Heuristics {#id-4.3ValidationandTriage-TriageHeuristics}

[Even for the reports a vendor accepts as legitimate and worthwhile, it
is likely that the development team does not have time to address every
report at the moment it arrives. Thus, if a report is found to be valid,
the next question is how to allocate resources to the report. Most often
this requires some measure of how severe the vulnerability is. In some
scenarios, the vulnerability may be a critical flaw that requires
immediate action, while other cases might indicate a very rare and
hard-to-exploit vulnerability that should be given a low priority.\
\
There are a number of heuristics for evaluating the severity of
vulnerabilities. Perhaps the most commonly known of these is the Common
Vulnerability Scoring System (CVSS) \[1\]. This system allows a short
standard description of the impact of a vulnerability and can be mapped
to a score between 1.0 and 10.0 to help prioritization. A related but
different metric is the Common Weakness Scoring System (CWSS) \[2\].
Whereas CVSS addresses the detailed impact of a specific vulnerability,
CWSS can be used to evaluate the impact of a class of weaknesses. While
scoring systems like CVSS and CWSS can be useful at establishing
relative severity among reports, care must be taken in their use since
scores do not always map well onto a vendor\'s or deployer\'s
priorities.\
\
Vendors should ensure their analysts are trained in the chosen heuristic
and understand its strengths and weaknesses so that its result can be
overridden when necessary. We do not, for example, recommend blind
adherence to hard cutoffs such as \"We only bother with reports that
have a CVSS score greater than 7.0.\" No vulnerability scoring system is
so precise. Ideally, whatever prioritization scheme is used should also
be made transparent to reporters so that the process is understood by
all stakeholders. Transparency in this part of the process can help
prevent frustration and confusion when reporter and vendor disagree on
severity of a
vulnerability.]{style="color: rgb(23,43,77);text-decoration: none;"}

\



\< [4.2 Reporting](4.2-Reporting_47677468.md) \| [4.4
Remediation](4.4-Remediation_47677470.md) \>



[\
]{style="color: rgb(23,43,77);text-decoration: none;"}

## References {#id-4.3ValidationandTriage-References}

1.  [FIRST, \"Common Vulnerability Scoring System,\" \[Online\].
    Available:
    [https://www.first.org/cvss](https://www.first.org/cvss){.external-link
    rel="nofollow"}. \[Accessed 17 May
    2017\].]{style="color: rgb(23,43,77);text-decoration: none;"}
2.  [MITRE, \"Common Weakness Scoring System (CWSS) version 1.0.1,\" 5
    September 2014. \[Online\]. Available:
    [https://cwe.mitre.org/cwss/cwss_v1.0.1.html](https://cwe.mitre.org/cwss/cwss_v1.0.1.md){.external-link
    rel="nofollow"}. \[Accessed 17 May
    2017\].]{style="color: rgb(23,43,77);text-decoration: none;"}












