# 4.4 Remediation 








A vulnerability can be remediated by providing a fix. Alternatively,
mitigation instructions can often be developed as an interim solution.

Once the scope of the vulnerability has been adequately ascertained,
it\'s time to prepare and test the fix (patch). The sequence of tasks
tends to include identifying and isolating the vulnerability in the
code; changing the code to eliminate the vulnerability; testing the
changes, packaging the changes for distribution; and distributing the
updated product. While the details of how to do this are often specific
to the product as well as the vendor organization and its development
process and are thus outside the scope of this document, we review each
step in this section.

# Isolating the Problem {#id-4.4Remediation-IsolatingtheProblem}

Once a vulnerability report has been received and validated, it must be
added into the work queue for the development team to isolate the
underlying problem. This often requires input from developers
knowledgeable in the code in order to precisely define the problem and
understand its impacts.

Often a report will describe a single path to exploit a vulnerability,
yet there may be other ways for an attacker to reach the same code and
exploit it a different way. This makes it necessary for the developers
and analysts responsible for fixing the code to explore the potential
for other avenues of exploitation before zeroing in on the specific
conditions found in the original report.

There is also the risk that the vulnerable code or component has been
reused elsewhere. We have encountered vulnerabilities in multiple
codebases that arose because a single developer worked on each project,
copying the same vulnerable code into each of them.

# Fix the Problem {#id-4.4Remediation-FixtheProblem}

Reporters and finders should recognize that developing, testing, and
preparation of patches for deployment often requires some time. A vendor
acting in good faith to ferret out the vulnerability and fix it
thoroughly should usually be granted some leeway. A well-tested patch
that is issued later is preferable to a prematurely released patch that
creates further problems. We encourage finders, reporters, and vendors
to communicate expectations *early* and *often* with respect to the
status of the fix creation process as long as a vendor is responsive.

# Mitigate What You Cannot Fix {#id-4.4Remediation-MitigateWhatYouCannotFix}

In most cases, knowledge of a vulnerability leads the vendor to create
and issue a fix to correct it. As a stopgap in scenarios where it may
not possible to develop a timely fix, a vendor or third party will
sometimes provide advice on actions that can be taken to mitigate the
effects of the vulnerability. Sometimes this advice is as simple as
instructions for disabling the affected features of the system. In other
cases, mitigation advice might include detailed configuration changes to
be made by deployers. However, in nearly all cases a full fix for the
vulnerability is preferable to mitigation advice, which should at best
be treated as a temporary solution to the problem.

\



\< [4.3 Validation and Triage](4.3-Validation-and-Triage_47677469.md)
\| [4.5 Gaining Public
Awareness](4.5-Gaining-Public-Awareness_47677471.md) \>














