



1.  [CERT Guide to CVD](index.html)
2.  [The CERT Guide to Coordinated Vulnerability
    Disclosure](The-CERT-Guide-to-Coordinated-Vulnerability-Disclosure_47677443.html)


# [ CERT Guide to CVD : 1. Introduction ]{#title-text} {#title-heading .pagetitle}




Created by [ Allen D. Householder]{.author}, last modified on 2019-05-29



Imagine you\'ve found a vulnerability in a product. What do you do with
this knowledge?

Maybe nothing. There are many situations in which it\'s perfectly
reasonable to decide to go on about your business and let somebody else
deal with it. You\'re busy. You have more important things to do. It\'s
not your code, so it\'s not your problem. Or maybe it is your code, but
you wrote it a long time ago, and it will take a lot of effort to even
try to fix it. Maybe the product has already reached end-of-life. Or
perhaps fixing this bug will delay the launch of your new product that
will supersede this version anyway. There are plenty of good reasons
that it might not be worth the hassle of fixing it or reporting it.
Although this is what a mathematician would refer to as a degenerate
case of the disclosure process in which no disclosure occurs, it\'s
important to recognize that even starting the process of disclosure is a
choice one must consider carefully.

Often, though, you will likely feel a need to take some action in
response to this newfound knowledge of a vulnerability. If it\'s your
product, you might immediately set off to understand the root cause of
the problem and fix it. Once fixed, you probably will want to draw
attention to the fix so your product\'s users can protect themselves. Or
perhaps the product is other people\'s responsibility to fix, and you
want to inform them of the existence of this vulnerability.

This is where the process of Coordinated Vulnerability Disclosure (CVD)
begins.

-   [1.1. Coordinated Vulnerability Disclosure is a Process, Not an
    Event](47677446.html)
-   [1.2. CVD Context and Terminology
    Notes](1.2.-CVD-Context-and-Terminology-Notes_47677447.html)
-   [1.3. Why Coordinate Vulnerability Disclosures?](47677448.html)
-   [1.4. Previewing the Remainder of this
    Document](1.4.-Previewing-the-Remainder-of-this-Document_47677449.html)



\< [Executive Summary](Executive-Summary_49414154.html) \| [1.1.
Coordinated Vulnerability Disclosure is a Process, Not an
Event](47677446.html) \>








Document generated by Confluence on 2023-10-27 14:58 -0400


[Atlassian](https://www.atlassian.com/)




