<a name="13"></a>
!!! warning "Vendor receives report outside the scope of their reporting program"

    !!! warning inline end ""

        **Role(s) affected:** Vendor

        **Phase(s):** Reporting, Validation and prioritization

        **Description:**

        1. The vendor operates a vulnerability disclosure program with a defined scope.
        2. A report is received that falls outside of that scope.

    - Reports received in CVD programs don't always fall neatly within the vendor's predefined scope for their vulnerability disclosure policy. In most cases, that shouldn't matter, because:
        - If the report is for a vulnerability that the vendor is able to fix, the vendor should proceed with the rest of the CVD process as if it were in scope
        - If the report is for a vulnerability that the vendor is unable to fix (e.g., it's not in the vendor's product but in a library) the vendor may redirect the reporter to the originating vendor, or could act as a coordinator and engage the upstream vendor directly.
        - If the report is not for a vulnerability but represents a security incident (e.g., data leaked on an open server), the vendor can handle it as a security incident.
        - If the report is for a bug that is otherwise not a vulnerability, the vendor can route the report to the appropriate developers for remediation.
    - In each of these cases, the reporter has provided useful information that is actionable by the vendor. Misdirected (out of scope) reports provide vendors an opportunity to review and revise their published documentation and policies to ensure they're communicating clearly what they do and do not expect to receive via their CVD program.
    - Even if the report indicates that the finder or reporter went far beyond the vendor's policy, it may still be appropriate to handle the report as if it were in compliance in order to avoid causing further problems for either the vendor or the reporter. Reporters can often be redirected toward acceptable future behavior if their initial oversteps are treated as teachable moments rather than violations in need of punishment.
