<a name="16"></a>
!!! warning "Vulnerability affects downstream vendors"

    !!! warning inline end ""

        **Role(s) affected:** Vendor

        **Phase(s):** Validation and prioritization, Remediation

        **Description:**

        1. Multiple vendors are likely to be affected by the vulnerability.
        2. Many of these vendors are dependent on the originating vendor providing a fix before they can take action.
        3. The originating vendor may or may not know exactly who those downstream vendors are or how to reach them.

    - Questions of fairness arise if some affected vendors are given advance notice of a vulnerability while others are notified only when it reaches the Public Awareness phase. The goal should be to provide as much information as soon as possible to all affected vendors.
    - Vendors should provide communication channels for their downstream vendors to coordinate vulnerability response when needed. Ideally these channels are established and maintained on an ongoing basis, because constructing them in an ad-hoc manner in the midst of a vulnerability case can be time consuming and error prone.
    - Vendors may wish to provide an extended embargo period so that their downstream vendors have an opportunity to incorporate changes before entering the Public Awareness phase. This obviously works better in cases where the originating vendor knows who most of its downstream vendors are. (See Vulnerability affects unknown downstream vendors for additional advice when they don't.)
    - Cases where a significant user base (in terms of size or relative importance) may be affected by the vulnerability via unknown downstream vendors' products are an argument in favor of shortened embargo periods and increased Public Awareness.
    - Furthermore, the larger the number of involved parties, the more likely the embargo is to fail. Vendors in a supply chain may consider whether legally binding disclosure agreements are an appropriate means to limit this risk. However, it's often not feasible for all parties to be placed under such an agreement, which again argues in favor of short embargo periods.
    - Reporters and Vendors can engage the services of a third party Coordinator to assist with notifying other Vendors, coordinating response along a supply chain, resolving disputes, etc.
    - See [Multiparty CVD](../coordination/mpcvd.md), [Response Pacing and Synchronization](../coordination/response_pacing.md), and [Maintaining Pre-Disclosure Secrecy](../coordination/maintaining_secrecy.md)
