



1.  [CERT Guide to CVD](index.html)
2.  [The CERT Guide to Coordinated Vulnerability
    Disclosure](The-CERT-Guide-to-Coordinated-Vulnerability-Disclosure_47677443.html)
3.  [8. Open Problems in CVD](8.-Open-Problems-in-CVD_47677496.html)


# 8.2 IoT and CVD 




Created by [ Allen D. Householder]{.author}, last modified by [
user-5e993]{.editor} on 2019-05-29



Next we turn our attention to the implications that the Internet of
Things brings to the CVD discussion. \"Smart things\" are expected to
outnumber traditional computers in the near future and will likely
surpass mobile phones not long thereafter. IoT will have implications to
the protection of privacy, opportunities for fraud and abuse, and
ensuring safety. Every vulnerable thing becomes a potential point of
leverage for an attacker to persist or maneuver laterally through a
network. Immature security on IoT devices can leak information that
could allow an attacker to gain a foothold.

Because many such systems and devices are expected to remain
operationally useful for years or even decades with minimal
intervention, it is especially important that their security be
thoroughly understood prior to deployment. This section collects a
number of issues we observed in the course of recent work done by the
CERT Vulnerability Analysis team, and is adapted from a CERT/CC blog
post by Householder \[1\].

# Black Boxes {#id-8.2IoTandCVD-BlackBoxes}

We identified issues such as the inclusion of networked appliances in a
larger system where the appliances provided networked services based on
sensor data. Enterprise security policy treated the device as a black
box rather than a general-purpose computer with regard to patch levels,
included software, and so forth. The attack vector posed by the sensor
data interface had not been considered either.

# Unrecognized Subcomponents {#id-8.2IoTandCVD-UnrecognizedSubcomponents}

In a number of projects, we observed that while many systems were
composed of highly specified off-the-shelf and custom components, the
vendors providing those systems often could not identify the third-party
subcomponents present in the delivered codebase. The problem can be as
simple as not identifying statically linked libraries or as complicated
as dealing with complex supply chains for code components.

# Long-Lived and Hard-to-Patch {#id-8.2IoTandCVD-Long-LivedandHard-to-Patch}

We observed various devices with wireless data capabilities embedded
within a larger system yet little or no ability to patch the fielded
systems except within very sparse service windows. Instances where
physical contact with the device is required in order to update it can
be especially problematic once vulnerabilities are discovered (See Dan
Geer\'s talk at the Security of Things Forum for more on the
\"long-lived and not reachable\" problem \[2\]).

# New Interfaces Bring New Threats {#id-8.2IoTandCVD-NewInterfacesBringNewThreats}

We also encountered smart grid devices built out of a traditional
electrical component coupled to an embedded Linux system to provide
networked services. In a deployment context, the device was treated as
an appliance. However, the impact of potential vulnerabilities in the
general-purpose operating system embedded in the device had not been
fully addressed.

# Summarizing the IoT\'s Impact on CVD {#id-8.2IoTandCVD-SummarizingtheIoT'sImpactonCVD}

We anticipate that many of the current gaps in security analysis tools
and knowledge will begin to close over the next few years. However, it
may be some time before we can fully understand how the systems already
available today, let alone tomorrow, will impact the security of the
networks onto which they are placed. The scope of the problem does not
appear to contract any time soon.

We already live in a world where mobile devices outnumber traditional
computers, and IoT stand to dwarf mobile computing in terms of the sheer
number of devices within the next few years. As vulnerability discovery
tools and techniques evolve into this space, so must our tools and
processes for coordination and disclosure. Assumptions built into the
CVD process about disclosure timing, coordination channels, development
cycles, scanning, patching, and so on, will need to be reevaluated in
the light of hardware-based systems that are likely to dominate the
future internet.

\



\< [8.1 Vulnerability IDs and
DBs](8.1-Vulnerability-IDs-and-DBs_47677497.html) \| [9.
Conclusion](9.-Conclusion_47677499.html) \>



## References {#id-8.2IoTandCVD-References}

1.  [A. Householder, \"Vulnerability Discovery for Emerging Networked
    Systems,\" 20 November 2014. \[Online\]. Available:
    [https://insights.sei.cmu.edu/cert/2014/11/-vulnerability-discovery-for-emerging-networked-systems.html](https://insights.sei.cmu.edu/cert/2014/11/-vulnerability-discovery-for-emerging-networked-systems.html){.external-link
    rel="nofollow"}. \[Accessed 16 May
    2017\].]{style="color: rgb(23,43,77);text-decoration: none;"}
2.  [D. Geer, \"Security of Things,\" 14 May 2014. \[Online\].
    Available:
    [http://geer.tinho.net/geer.secot.7v14.txt](http://geer.tinho.net/geer.secot.7v14.txt){.external-link
    rel="nofollow"}. \[Accessed 16 May
    2017\].]{style="color: rgb(23,43,77);text-decoration: none;"}












