



1.  [CERT Guide to CVD](index.html)
2.  [The CERT Guide to Coordinated Vulnerability
    Disclosure](The-CERT-Guide-to-Coordinated-Vulnerability-Disclosure_47677443.html)
3.  [6. Troubleshooting CVD](6.-Troubleshooting-CVD_47677482.html)


# [ CERT Guide to CVD : 6.4 Intentional or Accidental Leaks ]{#title-text} {#title-heading .pagetitle}




Created by [ Allen D. Householder]{.author}, last modified by [
user-5e993]{.editor} on 2019-05-29



Sometimes information leaks out of the CVD process. Perhaps an email
gets CC\'ed to someone who didn\'t need to know. Somebody might talk too
much at a conference. Somebody could tweet that they just found a
vulnerability in product X, providing no other details. Somebody might
intentionally disclose the information to someone not involved in the
supply chain for the fix.

Unfortunately, not everyone plays by the same rules. You might find
information you thought was shared in confidence showing up in some
non-confidential location. It might be a simple misunderstanding,
mismatched expectations, or in rare cases, a malicious act. Regardless
of how it leaked, there are three major questions to ask:

1.  What information leaked?
2.  How did the information leak?
3.  How will you respond?

As we noted in [Section 5.7](5.7-Disclosure-Timing_47677481.html), mere
knowledge that a vulnerability exists in a certain component can
sometimes be enough to enable a determined individual or organization to
find it. While a partial leak of information isn\'t necessarily as
serious as a detailed leak, it should at least trigger additional
consideration of accelerating the disclosure timeline.

\



\< [6.3 Somebody Stops
Replying](6.3-Somebody-Stops-Replying_47677485.html) \| [6.5 Independent
Discovery](6.5-Independent-Discovery_47677487.html) \>














