



1.  [CERT Guide to CVD](index.html)
2.  [The CERT Guide to Coordinated Vulnerability
    Disclosure](The-CERT-Guide-to-Coordinated-Vulnerability-Disclosure_47677443.html)


# [ CERT Guide to CVD : 6. Troubleshooting CVD ]{#title-text} {#title-heading .pagetitle}




Created by [ Allen D. Householder]{.author}, last modified on 2019-09-17



*Good process serves you so you can serve customers. But if you\'re not
watchful, the process can become the thing. This can happen very easily
in large organizations. The process becomes the proxy for the result you
want. You stop looking at outcomes and just make sure you\'re doing the
process right. Gulp. It\'s not that rare to hear a junior leader defend
a bad outcome with something like, \"Well, we followed the process.\" A
more experienced leader will use it as an opportunity to investigate and
improve the process. The process is not the thing. It\'s always worth
asking, do we own the process or does the process own us?*

*-- Jeff Bezos, 2016 Letter to Amazon Shareholders*

*\
*

*I came here to make the world a better place, but I think I broke it.*

*-- Judy Hopps, Zootopia*

*\
*

As we\'ve mentioned throughout this document, CVD can occasionally be a
complex process. In this section, we\'ll first cover some of the common
ways things can go wrong and finish with some suggestions on what to do
if and when they do. A summary of the advice in this section can be
found in [6.10 Troubleshooting Coordinated Vulnerability Disclosure
Table](6.10-Troubleshooting-Coordinated-Vulnerability-Disclosure-Table_55967749.html).

-   [6.1 Unable to Find Vendor
    Contact](6.1-Unable-to-Find-Vendor-Contact_47677483.html)
-   [6.2 Unresponsive Vendor](6.2-Unresponsive-Vendor_47677484.html)
-   [6.3 Somebody Stops
    Replying](6.3-Somebody-Stops-Replying_47677485.html)
-   [6.4 Intentional or Accidental
    Leaks](6.4-Intentional-or-Accidental-Leaks_47677486.html)
-   [6.5 Independent Discovery](6.5-Independent-Discovery_47677487.html)
-   [6.6 Active Exploitation](6.6-Active-Exploitation_47677488.html)
-   [6.7 Relationships that Go
    Sideways](6.7-Relationships-that-Go-Sideways_47677489.html)
-   [6.8 Hype, Marketing, and Unwanted Attention](47677490.html)
-   [6.9 What to Do When Things Go
    Wrong](6.9-What-to-Do-When-Things-Go-Wrong_47677491.html)
-   [6.10 Troubleshooting Coordinated Vulnerability Disclosure
    Table](6.10-Troubleshooting-Coordinated-Vulnerability-Disclosure-Table_55967749.html)



\< [5.7 Disclosure Timing](5.7-Disclosure-Timing_47677481.html) \| [6.1
Unable to Find Vendor
Contact](6.1-Unable-to-Find-Vendor-Contact_47677483.html) \>








Document generated by Confluence on 2023-10-27 14:58 -0400






