!!! warning "Vendor does not have a posted bug bounty"

    !!! warning inline end ""

        **Role(s) affected:** Reporter

        **Phase(s):** Reporting

        **Description:**

        1. The reporter wishes to report a vulnerability to the vendor
        2. The vendor does not have a public bug bounty
        3. The reporter asks the vendor if they have a bug bounty
        4. The vendor responds non-constructively

    - Up until a few years ago, bug bounties were rare. Today, vendors that intend to pay bounties for vulnerability reports have taken positive action to communicate this fact to finders and reporters. They will usually have clearly defined communication channels, program scopes, etc. posted in easily found locations.
    - By extension, a vendor that has not taken such action has either chosen not to, or may be entirely novice to the practice of CVD. If they've chosen not to, they likely will just explain that when the reporter makes initial contact, and thus fail to meet the 4th item in the description.
    - We've observed that some novice vendors react quite negatively to reporters who accompany their initial contact with what may appear to be a demand for payment. That's not to say that the finder or reporter intended their "do you have a bug bounty?" inquiry as an attempted extortion of course.
    - Our recommendation to finders and reporters is that if payment for their services is expected, they do their best to find out whether the vendor offers a bounty program (and its scope) prior to embarking on any significant effort to find vulnerabilities. It's unlikely that a reporter will be able to cajole a vendor without an existing bounty to create one during the course of a single CVD case.

