



1.  [CERT Guide to CVD](index.html)
2.  [The CERT Guide to Coordinated Vulnerability
    Disclosure](The-CERT-Guide-to-Coordinated-Vulnerability-Disclosure_47677443.html)


# [ CERT Guide to CVD : 9. Conclusion ]{#title-text} {#title-heading .pagetitle}




Created by [ Allen D. Householder]{.author}, last modified by [
user-5e993]{.editor} on 2019-05-29



*[When I was a boy and I would see scary things in the news, my mother
would say to me, \'Look for the helpers. You will always find people who
are helping.\' \
-- Mister Rogers]{style="color: rgb(23,43,77);text-decoration: none;"}*

[\
]{style="color: rgb(23,43,77);text-decoration: none;"}

[[The scope of the citizenry affected by cybersecurity vulnerabilities
has widened considerably in recent years.\
\
In the past, one might have argued that only computer users were
affected by vulnerabilities and their disclosure: this is no longer the
case. Affected users now include those who have smartphones, watch smart
TVs, use credit cards or ATMs for banking and/or shopping, drive cars,
fly in airplanes, go to the hospital for diagnostic imaging or
intravenous medicine, live in houses with smart meters, and so forth.
The list goes on to include nearly everyone, and \"opting out\" is not a
viable position for most people to take. In an ideal world, software
would do exactly what we expect it to do, and nothing we don\'t want it
to do. In an ideal world, vendors would be receptive to finding out
about vulnerabilities in their products, and would recognize the service
provided to them by those who find and report problems. They would be
motivated to place user safety, privacy, and security at the top of
their priorities. In an ideal world, human communications would be clear
to all parties involved. Well-meaning parties would never misunderstand
or misinterpret each other\'s words or intentions. People would always
be polite, patient, humble, calm, without guile, and willing to put
aside their own interests for those of others. We do not live in an
ideal world. In the world we find ourselves occupying, software-based
systems exhibit complex behaviors, increasingly exceeding the limits of
human comprehension \[1\].
]{style="color: rgb(23,43,77);text-decoration: none;"}]{style="color: rgb(23,43,77);text-decoration: none;"}

[[As a society, we have become capable of building things we don\'t
fully understand. The difference between what a thing does and what you
expect it to do can lead to uncertainty, confusion, fear, and
vulnerability. But it\'s not just the technology that falls short of our
ideals. It should come as no surprise that humans have diverse emotions
and motives. Values differ. Feelings get hurt, people get frustrated.
Words are misinterpreted. Incentives promote individual choices that
conflict with each other. What\'s good for the individual is sometimes
bad for the collective, and vice-versa. And so, we\'re left to muddle
through. To confront each day as an opportunity to learn, another chance
to improve, and make tomorrow start a little better than yesterday
ended. We scan the horizon to reduce surprise. We test for flaws, we
probe for weaknesses, and we identify recurring patterns and themes that
lead to undesired outcomes. We fix what we can, mitigate what we can\'t
fix, and remain vigilant over what we can\'t mitigate. We coordinate
vulnerability disclosure because we realize we\'re all in this together.
]{style="color: rgb(23,43,77);text-decoration: none;"}]{style="color: rgb(23,43,77);text-decoration: none;"}

[[Thanks for
reading.]{style="color: rgb(23,43,77);text-decoration: none;"}]{style="color: rgb(23,43,77);text-decoration: none;"}*[\
]{style="color: rgb(23,43,77);text-decoration: none;"}*

\



\< [8.2 IoT and CVD](8.2-IoT-and-CVD_47677498.html) \| [Appendix A - On
the Internet of Things and Vulnerability
Analysis](Appendix-A---On-the-Internet-of-Things-and-Vulnerability-Analysis_47677518.html)
\>



*[\
]{style="color: rgb(23,43,77);text-decoration: none;"}*

## References {#id-9.Conclusion-References}

1.  [S. Arbesman, Overcomplicated: Technology at the Limits of
    Comprehension, Current,
    2016.]{style="color: rgb(23,43,77);text-decoration: none;"}






Document generated by Confluence on 2023-10-27 14:58 -0400


[Atlassian](https://www.atlassian.com/)




