# Appendix E - Disclosure Policy Templates 

# CERT Vulnerability Disclosure Policy Templates {#AppendixEDisclosurePolicyTemplates-CERTVulnerabilityDisclosurePolicyTemplates}

[In recent years the CERT/CC has advised a number of organizations on
their vulnerability disclosure policies. In the interest of helping
others develop or improve their own policies, we've collected policy
items from a variety of vulnerability disclosure policies including our
own, generalized them, organized them by topic, and put them into a git
repository. [The policy templates in this repository are meant to be
remixed and adapted for different organizations and contexts. It is
unlikely that any single organization would choose to adopt all of these
items wholesale without some
modification.]{style="color: rgb(36,41,46);"}]{style="color: rgb(36,41,46);"}

[https://github.com/CERTCC/vulnerability_disclosure_policy_templates](https://github.com/CERTCC/vulnerability_disclosure_policy_templates){.external-link
style="letter-spacing: 0.0px;" rel="nofollow"}

# NTIA Early Stage Template {#AppendixEDisclosurePolicyTemplates-NTIAEarlyStageTemplate}

The NTIA Early Stage Template focuses on vulnerability disclosure policy
development in safety-critical industries, in which the potential for
harm directly impacts public safety or causes physical damage (e.g.,
automobiles or medical devices), but the lessons are easily adaptable by
any organization that builds or maintains its own software or systems. A
discussion of issues and template policy is included.

[https://www.ntia.doc.gov/files/ntia/publications/ntia_vuln_disclosure_early_stage_template.pdf](https://www.ntia.doc.gov/files/ntia/publications/ntia_vuln_disclosure_early_stage_template.pdf){.external-link
rel="nofollow"}

# [Disclose.io](http://Disclose.io){.external-link rel="nofollow"} {#AppendixEDisclosurePolicyTemplates-Disclose.io}

> [[[[disclose.io]{style="color: rgb(0,0,0);"}](http://disclose.io/){.external-link
> rel="nofollow"}]{.hero__disclose .h-sansserif} is a cross-industry,
> vendor-agnostic standardization project for *safe
> harbor*[[†]{.hinted}]{.small} best practices to enable
> good-faith security research.]{style="color: rgb(0,0,0);"}

Main web
site: [https://disclose.io/](https://disclose.io/){.external-link
rel="nofollow"}

Github repository with policy
templates: [https://github.com/disclose/disclose](https://github.com/disclose/disclose){.external-link
rel="nofollow"}

# Open Source Vulnerability Disclosure Framework {#AppendixEDisclosurePolicyTemplates-OpenSourceVulnerabilityDisclosureFramework}

BugCrowd and CipherLaw created the Open Source Vulnerability Disclosure
Framework, offered under a Creative Commons Attribution 4.0
International License. The framework "is designed to quickly and
smoothly prepare your organization to work with the independent security
researcher community while reducing the legal risks to researchers and
companies." In addition to a policy template "written with both
simplicity and legal completeness in mind," a guidance document is
provided for setting up a vulnerability disclosure program.

[https://github.com/bugcrowd/disclosure-policy](https://github.com/bugcrowd/disclosure-policy){.external-link
rel="nofollow"}

# Security.txt {#AppendixEDisclosurePolicyTemplates-Security.txt}

security.txt: A proposed standard which allows websites to define
security policies.

[https://securitytxt.org/](https://securitytxt.org/){.external-link
rel="nofollow"} and IETF
draft [https://tools.ietf.org/html/draft-foudil-securitytxt-08](https://tools.ietf.org/html/draft-foudil-securitytxt-08){.external-link
rel="nofollow"}

# U.S. GSA Vulnerability Disclosure Policy {#AppendixEDisclosurePolicyTemplates-U.S.GSAVulnerabilityDisclosurePolicy}

The United States General Services Administration (GSA)'s Technology
Transformation Service (TTS) provides its vulnerability disclosure
policy as a public domain resource.

[https://github.com/18F/vulnerability-disclosure-policy](https://github.com/18F/vulnerability-disclosure-policy){.external-link
rel="nofollow"}

# ENISA Good Practice Guide on Vulnerability Disclosure {#AppendixEDisclosurePolicyTemplates-ENISAGoodPracticeGuideonVulnerabilityDisclosure}

The Good Practice Guide on Vulnerability Disclosure from European Union
Agency for Network and Information Security (ENISA) includes an
annotated vulnerability disclosure policy template as an Annex.

[https://www.enisa.europa.eu/publications/vulnerability-disclosure/at_download/fullReport](https://www.enisa.europa.eu/publications/vulnerability-disclosure/at_download/fullReport){.external-link
rel="nofollow"}

# US Department of Justice Framework for a Vulnerability Disclosure Program for Online Systems {#AppendixEDisclosurePolicyTemplates-USDepartmentofJusticeFrameworkforaVulnerabilityDisclosureProgramforOnlineSystems}

The United States Department of Justice (DoJ) has published a white
paper containing guidance aimed at developing vulnerability disclosure
programs for online systems and services. This report makes a point to
distinguish online systems and services from "third-party vulnerability
disclosure and hands-on---rather than remote---examination of software,
devices, or hardware" because of potentially distinct legal issues that
may arise.

[https://www.justice.gov/criminal-ccips/page/file/983996/download](https://www.justice.gov/criminal-ccips/page/file/983996/download){.external-link
rel="nofollow"}

The aforementioned report is one of many related white papers provided
by the DoJ's Computer Crime and Intellectual Property section.

[https://www.justice.gov/criminal-ccips/ccips-documents-and-reports](https://www.justice.gov/criminal-ccips/ccips-documents-and-reports){.external-link
rel="nofollow"}

# [Where to Look for More]{style="letter-spacing: 0.0px;"} {#AppendixEDisclosurePolicyTemplates-WheretoLookforMore}

Numerous organizations have already posted their vulnerability
disclosure policies. A wide variety of these policies can be found by
searching the web for "[vulnerability disclosure
policy]{rel="nofollow"}," or "[vulnerability disclosure
program]{rel="nofollow"}," or by browsing third-party vulnerability
disclosure (e.g., bug bounty) service providers' hosted programs.  



\< [Appendix D - Sample Vulnerability Disclosure
Document](/confluence/pages/createpage.action?spaceKey=CVD&title=Appendix+D+%E2%80%93+Sample+Vulnerability+Disclosure+Document&linkCreation=true&fromPageId=47677527){.createlink}
\| [Bibliography](Bibliography_47677529.md) \>

