<a name="17"></a>
!!! warning "Vulnerability affects unknown downstream vendors"

    !!! warning inline end ""

        **Role(s) affected:** Reporter, Vendor, Coordinator

        **Phase(s):** Validation and prioritization, Remediation

        **Description:**

        1. Multiple vendors are likely to be affected by the vulnerability.
        2. Many of these vendors are dependent on the originating vendor providing a fix before they can take action.
        3. The originating vendor does not know exactly who those downstream vendors are or how to reach them.

    - Questions of fairness arise if some affected vendors are given advance notice of a vulnerability while others are notified only when it reaches the Public Awareness phase. The goal should be to provide as much information as soon as possible to all affected vendors.
    - Vendors should provide communication channels for their downstream vendors to coordinate vulnerability response when needed. Ideally these channels are established and maintained on an ongoing basis, because constructing them in an ad-hoc manner in the midst of a vulnerability case can be time consuming and error prone.
    - For vulnerabilities affecting a large number of unknown downstream vendors, the Public Awareness phase plays an important part in identifying those vendors. Although publication may catch those by surprise in this case, it should also help establish the aforementioned contact channel for future cases.
    - Reporters and Vendors can engage the services of a third party Coordinator to assist with notifying other Vendors, coordinating response along a supply chain, resolving disputes, etc.
    - See [Multiparty CVD](../../../howto/variation/mpcvd.md), [Response Pacing and Synchronization](../../../howto/variation/response_pacing.md), and [Maintaining Pre-Disclosure Secrecy](../../../howto/variation/maintaining_secrecy.md)
