



1.  [CERT Guide to CVD](index.html)
2.  [The CERT Guide to Coordinated Vulnerability
    Disclosure](The-CERT-Guide-to-Coordinated-Vulnerability-Disclosure_47677443.html)
3.  [7. Operational
    Considerations](7.-Operational-Considerations_47677492.html)


# 7.1 Tools of the Trade 




Created by [ Allen D. Householder]{.author}, last modified by [
user-5e993]{.editor} on 2019-05-29



An organization\'s capabilities are supported by people, process, and
tools, and CVD is no different. This section covers some commonly used
tools.

# Secure Communication Channels {#id-7.1ToolsoftheTrade-SecureCommunicationChannels}

Secure communications can be nuanced to maintain in operation, so we
first turn our attention to establishing and maintaining this
capability.

## Email {#id-7.1ToolsoftheTrade-Email}

Email is a simple, tried-and-true method of communication over the
Internet. Simply because everyone has access to it, email is likely to
remain a common way of receiving vulnerability reports and
communications. Because of the potential for organizational changes like
employee promotions and turnover, having an individual\'s email address
as a security point of contact is generally discouraged. A better
solution is to establish an email account specifically for vulnerability
reports and CVD activity. Many vendors choose to reserve an email
address like \<`security@example.com`\> or \<`psirt@example.com`\> for
this purpose. RFC2350 \[1\] suggests you include contact information as
part of your overall CSIRT disclosure policy and process publication.

Additionally, we recommend that this information be listed clearly under
the Contact Us page or a similar page on your organization\'s website.
Ideally, an Internet search for \"*\<vendor\> report vulnerability*\"
should lead to that contact information. The security email account
should be an alias that is forwarded to or shared by one or more people.
This way, multiple team members can check the incoming mail and cover
for each other when team members are out of the office. Even if the
security team is only one person, having an alias makes it easier to
adapt should that person leave the organization; to the outside world,
no contact information needs to change.

Although receiving information via email is convenient, it is not a very
good mechanism for tracking multiple cases at once. Rather than sending
security emails to individual mailboxes, vendors, coordinators, and even
large-scale reporters should consider setting up a web-based case
tracking system instead. That way, received emails can automatically
generate new cases or augment existing ones, which can then be assigned
to team members and tracked as necessary. More on this topic can be
found in [Section 7.1](7.1-Tools-of-the-Trade_47677493.html).

[Secure Email]{style="font-size: 20.0px;letter-spacing: 0.0px;"}

Email by itself is not a secure medium. We recommend that emails
containing sensitive information be encrypted \[2\]. This includes
emails containing information about unpatched or otherwise sensitive
vulnerabilities. The most common tools for email encryption are Pretty
Good Privacy (PGP) \[3\] or Gnu Privacy Guard (GPG) \[4\], and
Secure/Multipurpose Internet Mail Extensions (S/MIME) using X.509
certificates \[5\]. By far, PGP/GPG is the most commonly used by CVD
participants. It has a learning curve but is relatively easy to use and
maintain once set up. A number of tools exist to make working with
PGP/GPG easier. In practice, very few individuals and organizations make
use of S/MIME & X.509 for their CVD process; while you may offer S/MIME
& X.509 as an option, PGP/GPG is recommended as the default. The
greatest difficulty with PGP/GPG (and really, any email encryption
scheme) is encryption key management. Key management will be discussed
in [Section 7.2](7.2-Operational-Security_47677494.html).

## Web Forms and Portals {#id-7.1ToolsoftheTrade-WebFormsandPortals}

Most vulnerability reports have a similar structure, making a web form a
preferable method for receiving vulnerability reports for many
organizations. To secure your web form, you will need to enable HTTPS
and TLS, and obtain a TLS certificate from a Certificate Authority (CA).
A free option is Let\'s Encrypt, maintained by the Internet Security
Research Group (ISRG) \[6\].

TLS ensures that the transmission is secure, but does not authenticate
who sent the report. If this is a requirement, you may also need to
implement login accounts on your web form with adequate authentication
mechanisms such as two-factor or X.509 certificates. However, this setup
increases the complexity for reporters to provide information to you,
and as a result is rare in practice and likely unnecessary. Once set up,
an HTTPS web form provides an easy-to-use way for reporters to contact
you with vulnerability reports and other information. However, a problem
does come up: how do you acknowledge receipt of the report?

Possibilities include the following:

-   *Echoing back the message in a confirmation email.* The reporter
    knows you received the text, but now the text was sent in plain text
    email for everyone to read. It is unlikely you want to do this.

-   *Send a brief thank you message, but without details.* The reporter
    can now be assured that the report was received. But what if you
    have a follow up question for the reporter? It\'s likely you will
    need to send an email, which will require encryption to keep the
    details of the question and answer secure.

-   *Send a brief thank you message, and ask the reporter to log in to a
    portal to view the message conversation.* This resolves the issue of
    two-way secure communications, but now you need to establish a
    public-facing portal and manage portal credentials. This raises
    additional operational considerations, for example those below:

-   user account management and password changes

-   two-factor authentication or X.509 as possible requirement to ensure
    user identity\
    \

Portal credential maintenance introduces more complications, and for
many vendors is likely not worth the effort. Another disadvantage of
using a portal is that vendors and organizations may be unwilling to
create accounts on another vendor\'s portal. This may discourage
multi-party communication and coordination, effectively preventing a
vendor or reporter from participating in multi-party CVD.

In the CERT/CC\'s experience, PGP/GPG encrypted email is the most common
solution for a primary contact channel; HTTPS websites or third-party
platforms can complement but may not always be sufficient to replace
email for your organization\'s CVD needs.

# Contact Management {#id-7.1ToolsoftheTrade-ContactManagement}

[For most reporters, the contact management process simply consists of
maintaining a vendor\'s email address and PGP/GPG key in compatible mail
client software. Contact management becomes vitally important to
multiparty CVD, and is a particular concern for third-party
coordinators. A common choice is Thunderbird with Enigmail \[7\], but
other open source solutions such as Outlook with gpg4win \[8\], or KMail
with KGpg/Kleopatra \[9\] and proprietary solutions such as Outlook with
Symantec Encryption Desktop \[3\] also exist.\
\
Finding vendor contacts can be difficult. Not all vendors include
contact information in an easily searchable page, such as a Contact Us
page linked from the vendor\'s homepage. Some alternatives include
searching old mailing lists, using social media, or even sending
physical letters to a business address \[10\].\
\
In order to protect privacy during the disclosure process, mailing lists
or simply carbon-copying all recipients to a single message is likely
not an acceptable action in most scenarios. Vendors in many cases would
like to keep their vulnerability information private except for what is
specifically intended to be shared. At the CERT/CC, we have developed
some in-house mailing scripts that auto-generate individual encrypted
emails, one for each vendor we attempt to reach. In this way, we can
maintain privacy up front, but can introduce two vendors should there be
mutual interest in collaboration. Our current tools were written with
our internal systems and network policies in mind. Other coordinators
may look into similar efforts. We covered communication topologies for
CVD in [Section
5.5.](5.5-Response-Pacing-and-Synchronization_47677479.html)]{style="color: rgb(23,43,77);text-decoration: none;"}

# Bug Bounty Platforms {#id-7.1ToolsoftheTrade-BugBountyPlatforms}

[ A number of third-party CVD platforms now exist to facilitate
communication between vendors and reporters \[11,12,13,14\]. Although
they are often referred to as bug bounty platforms, often the \"bounty\"
aspect is in fact optional---vendors can use bug bounty platforms to
receive reports without needing to compensate reporters unless they
choose to do so.\
\
CVD platforms provide a secure communications channel (HTTPS) for
reporters to communicate with vendors. These platforms generally allow
two-way communications, making it easy for ongoing discussion between
vendor and reporter. This channel is usually hosted by a third party in
a software-as-a-service model, which may be important to some
organizations that are not able to maintain their own infrastructure due
to resource constraints. Of course, having vulnerability information
hosted on third-party infrastructure may also present a data privacy
risk to some organizations, so it is important to consult internal
policies before determining if a CVD platform fits your organization\'s
needs and requirements.\
\
An important note regarding these platforms is that the CVD platform by
its nature requires a login. As explained in our discussion in the last
section, requiring an account may discourage some reporters or other
organizations from joining the platform, locking them out of discussion.
Organizations should consider whether the benefits of using a CVD
service outweigh this
concern.]{style="color: rgb(23,43,77);text-decoration: none;"}

# Case and Bug Tracking {#id-7.1ToolsoftheTrade-CaseandBugTracking}

Case tracking systems such as bug trackers or trouble ticket systems are
often used by vendors, coordinators, and reporters for tracking
vulnerability reports. Such systems can centralize the vulnerability
response process and provide the ability to track individual cases. Case
tracking systems also provide a means of collecting data about recurring
security issues and the performance of the response process itself.

\
We have found it important to distinguish that vulnerability reports are
not always bug reports. A single vulnerability report might contain
information on more than one bug; alternately, it may describe a
configuration issue that would not typically be considered a bug in the
first place. In general, vulnerability reports and bug reports should be
thought of as having a many-to-many relationship, allowing one or more
vulnerability reports to be linked to one or more bug reports.

That said, bug tracking systems can still be useful for vulnerability
report tracking if this distinction is kept in mind, and the bug
tracking system has the appropriate capabilities. At the CERT/CC, we\'ve
found that more complicated CVD cases---for example the multiparty cases
described in [Section 5.4](5.4-Multiparty-CVD_47677477.html)---become
more like projects than tickets.

# Code and System Inventories {#id-7.1ToolsoftheTrade-CodeandSystemInventories}

As we [discussed in [Section 5.4](5.4-Multiparty-CVD_47677477.html),
software-based products are typically assembled from components rather
than written from scratch. Economies of scale apply to code, and most
organizations would consider it wasteful to write a feature from scratch
when that feature is available at a reasonable licensing cost for
inclusion into their own products. As a result, each product is not
merely the result of a single vendor\'s development process, but of an
entire supply chain. Libraries get included in other libraries, which
form subcomponents in the composition of larger and more complex
products. ]{style="color: rgb(23,43,77);text-decoration: none;"}\
\
[For product vendors, an important part of the vulnerability response
process is knowing what weaknesses your products might have. You can
address this by clearly identifying any third-party libraries or
utilities that are included with your products, and being alert and
responsive to vulnerability disclosures in any third-party products that
may affect your own
products.]{style="color: rgb(23,43,77);text-decoration: none;"}\
\
[In recent years, a class of Software Composition Analysis tools (such
as those offered by WhiteSource Software \[15\], Black Duck Software
\[16\], Sonatype \[17\], Synopsys \[18\], Flexera Software \[19\], and
the like) have come into use to identify potential licensing conflicts
in commercial and open source products. Many of these tools are
potentially useful to vendors looking to create an inventory of
libraries and third-party components used in their products for security
analysis purposes as
well.]{style="color: rgb(23,43,77);text-decoration: none;"}\
\
[As a vendor, identifying your products\' third-party dependencies is
only the first step. After that, you should take steps to ensure that
your vulnerability response capability maintains awareness of any
security-related announcements about those upstream products on which
your product depends. Some component vendors offer special communication
channels (e.g., a mailing list) for their licensees. If you\'ve worked
with a coordinator like the CERT/CC in the past, ask if you can be
placed in a special notification list for a particular library or
product.]{style="color: rgb(23,43,77);text-decoration: none;"}\
\
[Furthermore, since it is likely that your products will in turn be used
as components in some other vendors\' solution, it can be a good
practice to provide an inventory of components along with your product.
A number of data formats and specifications have emerged in the software
supply chain management space and are in use by product vendors already.
]{style="color: rgb(23,43,77);text-decoration: none;"}

[These include the
following]{style="color: rgb(23,43,77);text-decoration: none;"}:

-   S[oftware Identification (SWID) Tags
    \[20\]]{style="color: rgb(23,43,77);text-decoration: none;"}
-   [Software Identification (SWID) Tags
    \[20\]]{style="color: rgb(23,43,77);text-decoration: none;"}
-   [Common Platform Enumeration (CPE)
    \[21\]]{style="color: rgb(23,43,77);text-decoration: none;"}
-   The Software Package Data Exchange (5PXD)
    \[[22[\]]{style="color: rgb(176,72,0);"}](/confluence/pages/createpage.action?spaceKey=CVD&title=22&linkCreation=true&fromPageId=47677493){.createlink}

# Test Bench and Virtualization {#id-7.1ToolsoftheTrade-TestBenchandVirtualization}

Having an [n internal testing infrastructure is vital to proper triage
and resolution of vulnerability reports as we discussed in [Section
4.3](4.3-Validation-and-Triage_47677469.html). Not only is testing
useful for confirming reports, or reproducing and isolating bugs; it can
also serve as a platform for an organization to develop its own
vulnerability discovery capability.
]{style="color: rgb(23,43,77);text-decoration: none;"}

[The analysts responsible for confirming incoming reports will over time
develop a familiarity with the ways in which a product is vulnerable,
and, given appropriate training and support, can begin to apply this
knowledge directly to the product without having to wait for
vulnerability reports to arrive from elsewhere. We have followed this
exact path at the CERT/CC: tools such as Dranzer \[23\] and BFF \[24\]
came directly out of vulnerability analysts applying broad knowledge of
vulnerabilities gained from detailed analysis of reports toward the
development of automated discovery processes.\
\
By far the easiest way to build a vulnerability testing infrastructure
is the use of virtualization technologies. Many different virtual
machine environments can be built for receivers of vulnerability reports
to verify or clarify the reports they receive.
]{style="color: rgb(23,43,77);text-decoration: none;"}

[At the CERT/CC, we maintain a firewalled testing network in which
virtual machines can be placed for testing. We also maintain a few
permanent pre-configured servers on this network (HTTP web servers,
etc.) to allow easy testing of certain classes of vulnerabilities, such
as \"drive-by\" browser downloads. Much of this infrastructure could be
replicated entirely in a virtual network within a single machine, or in
a cloud-based environment if desired.\
\
Be sure your analysts have proper access to any necessary software
needed for testing. This includes maintaining appropriate software
licenses for proprietary software, although in many cases free and/or
open source alternatives are available.
]{style="color: rgb(23,43,77);text-decoration: none;"}

[Toolkits often include the
following:]{style="color: rgb(23,43,77);text-decoration: none;"}

-   Virtualization platform, often a need to support multiple operating
    systems
-   Debuggers
-   Source code analysis tools
-   Binary analysis tools (decompilers, etc.)
-   Network sniffing tools
-   Hex editors
-   Text editors
-   Visualization (often built into other tools)

Vendors with more hardware-centric products may need to additionally
maintain more physical gear or specialized test bench equipment in order
to have sufficient capacity to confirm reports.

\



\< [7. Operational
Considerations](7.-Operational-Considerations_47677492.html) \| [7.2
Operational Security](7.2-Operational-Security_47677494.html) \>



## References {#id-7.1ToolsoftheTrade-References}

1.  [N. Brownlee and E. Guttman, \"Expectations for Computer Security
    Incident Response,\" The Internet Society,
    1998.]{style="color: rgb(23,43,77);text-decoration: none;"}
2.  [CERT/CC, \"Sending Sensitive Information,\" \[Online\]. Available:
    [https://www.cert.org/contact/sensitive-information.cfm](https://www.cert.org/contact/sensitive-information.cfm){.external-link
    rel="nofollow"}. \[Accessed 24 May
    2017\].]{style="color: rgb(23,43,77);text-decoration: none;"}
3.  [Symantec, \"Symantec Desktop Email Encryption,\" \[Online\].
    Available:
    [https://www.symantec.com/products/information-protection/encryption/desktop-email-encryption](https://www.symantec.com/products/information-protection/encryption/desktop-email-encryption){.external-link
    rel="nofollow"}. \[Accessed 24 May
    2017\].]{style="color: rgb(23,43,77);text-decoration: none;"}
4.  [The GnuPG Project, \"GNU Privacy Guard,\" \[Online\]. Available:
    [https://gnupg.org/](https://gnupg.org/){.external-link
    rel="nofollow"}. \[Accessed 24 May
    2017\].]{style="color: rgb(23,43,77);text-decoration: none;"}
5.  [B. Ramsdell and S. Turner, \"RFC 5751 Secure/Multipurpose Internet
    Mail Extensions (S/MIME) Version 3.2 Message Specification,\"
    January 2010. \[Online\]. Available:
    [https://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc5751](https://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc5751){.external-link
    rel="nofollow"}. \[Accessed 24 May
    2017\].]{style="color: rgb(23,43,77);text-decoration: none;"}
6.  [Internet Security Research Group (ISRG), \"Let\'s Encrypt,\"
    \[Online\]. Available:
    [https://letsencrypt.org/](https://letsencrypt.org/){.external-link
    rel="nofollow"}. \[Accessed 16 May
    2017\].]{style="color: rgb(23,43,77);text-decoration: none;"}
7.  [The Enigmail Project, \"Enigmail,\" \[Online\]. Available:
    [https://www.enigmail.net/index.php/en/](https://www.enigmail.net/index.php/en/){.external-link
    rel="nofollow"}. \[Accessed 24 May
    2017\].]{style="color: rgb(23,43,77);text-decoration: none;"}
8.  [Gpg4win Initiative, \"GNU Privacy Guard for Windows,\" \[Online\].
    Available:
    [https://www.gpg4win.org/](https://www.gpg4win.org/){.external-link
    rel="nofollow"}. \[Accessed 24 May
    2017\].]{style="color: rgb(23,43,77);text-decoration: none;"}
9.  [\"KGpg,\" \[Online\]. Available:
    [https://utils.kde.org/projects/kgpg/](https://utils.kde.org/projects/kgpg/){.external-link
    rel="nofollow"}. \[Accessed 24 May
    2017\].]{style="color: rgb(23,43,77);text-decoration: none;"}
10. [G. Wassermann, \"Reach Out and Mail Someone,\" 6 August 2015.
    \[Online\]. Available:
    [https://insights.sei.cmu.edu/cert/2015/08/reach-out-and-mail-someone.html](https://insights.sei.cmu.edu/cert/2015/08/reach-out-and-mail-someone.html){.external-link
    rel="nofollow"}. \[Accessed 24 May
    2017\]]{style="color: rgb(23,43,77);text-decoration: none;"}
11. [BugCrowd, \"BugCrowd,\" \[Online\]. Available:
    [https://bugcrowd.com/](https://bugcrowd.com/){.external-link
    rel="nofollow"}. \[Accessed 23 May
    2017\].]{style="color: rgb(23,43,77);text-decoration: none;"}
12. [HackerOne, \"HackerOne,\" \[Online\]. Available:
    [https://www.hackerone.com](https://www.hackerone.com){.external-link
    rel="nofollow"}. \[Accessed 23 May
    2017\].]{style="color: rgb(23,43,77);text-decoration: none;"}
13. [SynAck, \"SynAck,\" \[Online\]. Available:
    [https://www.synack.com](https://www.synack.com){.external-link
    rel="nofollow"}. \[Accessed 23 May
    2017\].]{style="color: rgb(23,43,77);text-decoration: none;"}
14. [Cobalt Labs Inc., \"Cobalt,\" \[Online\]. Available:
    [https://cobalt.io/](https://cobalt.io/){.external-link
    rel="nofollow"}. \[Accessed 23 May
    2017\].]{style="color: rgb(23,43,77);text-decoration: none;"}
15. [[\"White Source Software,\" \[Online\]. Available:
    [https://www.whitesourcesoftware.com/](https://www.whitesourcesoftware.com/){.external-link
    rel="nofollow"}. \[Accessed 24 May
    2017\].]{style="color: rgb(23,43,77);text-decoration: none;"}\
    ]{style="color: rgb(23,43,77);text-decoration: none;"}
16. [\"Black Duck Software,\" \[Online\]. Available:
    [https://www.blackducksoftware.com](https://www.blackducksoftware.com){.external-link
    rel="nofollow"}. \[Accessed 24 May
    2017\].]{style="color: rgb(23,43,77);text-decoration: none;"}
17. [\"Sonatype,\" \[Online\]. Available:
    [https://www.sonatype.com/](https://www.sonatype.com/){.external-link
    rel="nofollow"}. \[Accessed 24 May
    2017\].]{style="color: rgb(23,43,77);text-decoration: none;"}
18. [\"Synopsis,\" \[Online\]. Available:
    [https://www.synopsys.com/](https://www.synopsys.com/){.external-link
    rel="nofollow"}. \[Accessed 24 May
    2017\].]{style="color: rgb(23,43,77);text-decoration: none;"}
19. [\"Flexera Software,\" \[Online\]. Available:
    [https://www.flexerasoftware.com/](https://www.flexerasoftware.com/){.external-link
    rel="nofollow"}. \[Accessed 24 May
    2017\].]{style="color: rgb(23,43,77);text-decoration: none;"}
20. [[TagVault.org](http://TagVault.org){.external-link rel="nofollow"},
    \"SWID Tags,\" \[Online\]. Available:
    [http://tagvault.org/swid-tags/](http://tagvault.org/swid-tags/){.external-link
    rel="nofollow"}. \[Accessed 16 May
    2017\].]{style="color: rgb(23,43,77);text-decoration: none;"}
21. [National Institute of Standards and Technology, \"Common Platform
    Enumeration (CPE),\" \[Online\]. Available:
    [https://scap.nist.gov/specifications/cpe/](https://scap.nist.gov/specifications/cpe/){.external-link
    rel="nofollow"} \[Accessed 16 May
    2017\].]{style="color: rgb(23,43,77);text-decoration: none;"}
22. [SPDX Workgroup, \"Software Package Data Exchange,\" \[Online\].
    Available: [https://spdx.org/](https://spdx.org/){.external-link
    rel="nofollow"} . \[Accessed 16 May
    2017\].]{style="color: rgb(23,43,77);text-decoration: none;"}
23. [CERT, \"Dranzer,\" \[Online\]. Available:
    [https://vuls.cert.org/confluence/display/tools/Dranzer](https://vuls.cert.org/confluence/display/tools/Dranzer){rel="nofollow"}.
    \[Accessed 24 May
    2017\].]{style="color: rgb(23,43,77);text-decoration: none;"}
24. [CERT, \"BFF - Basic Fuzzing Framework,\" \[Online\]. Available:
    [https://vuls.cert.org/confluence/display/tools/CERT+BFF+-+Basic+Fuzzing+Framework](https://vuls.cert.org/confluence/display/tools/CERT+BFF+-+Basic+Fuzzing+Framework){rel="nofollow"}.
    \[Accessed 24 May
    2017\].]{style="color: rgb(23,43,77);text-decoration: none;"}












