# CVD Staffing Considerations

Vulnerability analysis and response may require networking and forensics
skills for certain classes of vulnerabilities, but often also requires
some mix of the following skills:

-   Programming skills, especially in common languages (C, C++, Python,
    Java)
-   Reverse engineering and debugging
-   Knowledge of low-level operating system features for Windows, Mac
    and/or Linux
-   Hardware architecture and basic electrical engineering
-   Software security testing
-   Virtualization and some infrastructure automation
-   Written communications
-   Customer-service mindset

In most organizations, these skills will likely be dispersed among a
team of people rather than expecting a single person to be fluent with
all of these topics.

# Beware Analyst Burnout
[Some organizations may have a small enough flow of incoming
vulnerability reports that all the CVD-related roles can be fulfilled by
a single team, or even a single person. Other organizations might choose
to split the technical analysis roles apart from the more human-oriented
communication and coordination roles. No matter the arrangements, it is
important that vendors and coordinators establishing a CVD capability
mitigate the potential for analyst burnout. Burnout of security analysts
is well-documented phenomenon \[1,2,3\]. Analysts working full-time in a
CVD process are at risk of this too. A vendor's CVD capability may
receive a large amount of incoming reports each week, especially at
larger vendors. This can result in CVD staff becoming stressed and
having low job satisfaction, leading to lower quality of work and
ultimately employee attrition. The costs of lower quality work (e.g.,
missing an important report), employee turnover (e.g., hiring and
training a new analyst), and associated damage to the vendor's
reputation suggest that this problem should be addressed ahead of time
with reasonable precautions. At the CERT/CC, we have attempted to
mitigate this issue with reasonable success by implementing the
suggestions below. Research has shown that many of these are effective
responses to commonly-held morale problems
\[3\].]
-   *Staying well-staffed* *and rotating responsibility.* Organizations
    may choose to have several team members, trained in the CVD process
    and tools, who can temporarily assist should a regular CVD analyst
    be unavailable for any reason, even if these additional team members
    do not typically do CVD day-to-day. Of course, handing off reports
    between temporary and full-time analysts leads to other operational
    concerns as previously discussed, so this must be done carefully.
    Organizations must also take care that these temporary team members
    are not pulled away from their own work so often that they
    themselves experience burnout.



A related possibility shared with us by a vendor is the possibility of
*work rotation,* whereby team members are rotated in and out of CVD
roles; rather than temporary, the rotation is permanent among a larger
group of team members. An example would be an analyst spending one week
in a CVD role, followed by two to three weeks on a different project or
role. The same concerns in our above discussion would apply;
organizations must be careful to balance time in and out of CVD roles in
order to maximize the effectiveness of the rotation.

-   *Allowing analyst independence.* Generally, you should trust your
    analysts to make good decisions during the report triage process,
    and empower them to make CVD decisions. Allowing analyst autonomy
    with management's specific blessing provides relief to analysts
    attempting to prioritize reports. Many reports will be incomplete,
    inaccurate, unimportant, or not actionable; allowing analysts to
    make the judgment on which reports deserve priority and which should
    be closed may help reduce work-related stress.
-   *Allotting professional development time*. Analysts schedule some
    time each week to focus on professional development or projects.
    During these times, the analyst is not expected to perform CVD
    duties. Providing this time in whole-day chunks is preferable to
    spreading it out across the week. It is also important that during
    these days the analyst not be disturbed; urgent tasks should be
    handled by other on-duty analysts as much as possible. This
    suggestion may be combined with work rotation to allow for regular
    project work outside of the scope of CVD.
-   *Seeking out automation*. We have encouraged analysts to document
    procedures and processes that need updating or could even be
    automated. Prototypes can be implemented and rolled out to decrease
    the cognitive workload of analysts. Processes and tools should be
    reviewed regularly to ensure they are aiding the analyst, rather
    than fighting the analyst.



Due to the possibility of burnout and the associated costs, the CERT/CC
recommends that CVD capability be established within a well-resourced
team or teams specifically created for this task, rather than
concentrating the responsibilities to a small team, or even a single
person. Our suggestions above may be helpful to combat analyst burnout,
but do not form an exhaustive list of possible actions.



## References
1.  [B. Rothke, "Building a Security Operations Center (SOC)," 29
    Feb 2012. \[Online\]. Available:
    [https://www.rsaconference.com/events/us12/agenda/sessions/683/building-a-security-operations-center-soc](https://www.rsaconference.com/events/us12/agenda/sessions/683/building-a-security-operations-center-soc). \[Accessed 24 May
    2017\].]2.  [S. Ragan, "Avoiding burnout: Ten tips for hackers working incident
    response," 30 April 2014. \[Online\]. Available:
    [http://www.csoonline.com/article/2149900/infosec-careers/avoiding-burnout-ten-tips-for-hackers-working-incident-response.html](http://www.csoonline.com/article/2149900/infosec-careers/avoiding-burnout-ten-tips-for-hackers-working-incident-response.md). \[Accessed 24 May
    2017\].]3.  [S. C. Sundaramurthy, A. G. Bardas, J. Case, X. Ou, M. Wesch, J.
    McHugh and S. R. Rajagopalan, "A human capital model for mitigating
    security analyst burnout," in
    ]{style="color: rgb(23,43,77);text-decoration: none;"}*Proceedings
    of the Eleventh Symposium on Usable Privacy and Security (SOUPS
    2015)*[, July
    2015.]
##  