::::::::::::::: {#page}
::::::::::: {#main .aui-page-panel}
:::: {#main-header}
::: {#breadcrumb-section}
1.  [CERT Guide to CVD](index.html)
2.  [The CERT Guide to Coordinated Vulnerability
    Disclosure](The-CERT-Guide-to-Coordinated-Vulnerability-Disclosure_47677443.html)
3.  [5. Process Variation
    Points](5.-Process-Variation-Points_47677473.html)
:::

# [ CERT Guide to CVD : 5.7 Disclosure Timing ]{#title-text} {#title-heading .pagetitle}
::::

:::::::: {#content .view}
::: page-metadata
Created by [ Allen D. Householder]{.author}, last modified on 2019-09-16
:::

:::::: {#main-content .wiki-content .group}
*When you say it\'s gonna happen now,*\
*When exactly do you mean?*\
*See I\'ve already waited too long*\
*And all my hope is gone*

*-The Smiths, \"How Soon is Now?\"*

*\
*

How long is \"long enough\" to respond to a vulnerability? Is 45 days
long enough? Is 90 days too short? Is 217 days unreasonable? Three
years? Talk among yourselves. We can wait. 

As with so many questions that arise in the CVD process, there is no
single right answer. So rather than trying to solve an underspecified
set of inequalities, let\'s have a look at some of the factors that tend
to play into timing choices. This will give us an opportunity to see
where some of the variability comes from.

::: {.toc-macro .rbtoc1698433082918}
-   [Conference Schedules and Disclosure
    Timing](#id-5.7DisclosureTiming-ConferenceSchedulesandDisclosureTiming)
-   [Vendor Reputation and Willingness to
    Cooperate](#id-5.7DisclosureTiming-VendorReputationandWillingnesstoCooperate)
-   [Declarative Disclosure Policies Reduce
    Uncertainty](#id-5.7DisclosureTiming-DeclarativeDisclosurePoliciesReduceUncertainty)
-   [All Disclosure Agreements Are
    Contingent](#id-5.7DisclosureTiming-AllDisclosureAgreementsAreContingent)
-   [Diverting from the
    Plan](#id-5.7DisclosureTiming-DivertingfromthePlan)
-   [Releasing Partial Information Can Help
    Adversaries](#id-5.7DisclosureTiming-ReleasingPartialInformationCanHelpAdversaries)
-   [References](#id-5.7DisclosureTiming-References)
:::

# Conference Schedules and Disclosure Timing {#id-5.7DisclosureTiming-ConferenceSchedulesandDisclosureTiming}

[Conference schedules often drive researcher timelines. This is a big
one. There is a rhythmic cycle to the vulnerability disclosure calendar.
Black Hat \[1\] and DEF CON \[2\] happen in early August every year.
Usenix Security \[3\] is usually right after that. The RSA Conference
\[4\] is in the late winter or early spring. CanSecWest \[5\] is in the
spring. Smaller conferences are scattered in between. Many of these
conferences rely on presenters describing novel attack methods in
varying degrees of detail. However, in order for researchers to analyze,
develop, and demonstrate those techniques, vulnerabilities are often
uncovered in extant products. That means that coordinating the
disclosure of the vulnerabilities they\'ve found is a common part of the
conference preparation process for presenters. The CERT/CC often
observes an increased rate of vulnerability reports a few months in
advance of these conferences. Vendors would do well to be aware of these
schedules and be prepared to respond quickly and appropriately to
seemingly inflexible deadlines for
disclosure.]{style="color: rgb(23,43,77);text-decoration: none;"}

# Vendor Reputation and Willingness to Cooperate {#id-5.7DisclosureTiming-VendorReputationandWillingnesstoCooperate}

Vendors that are perceived to treat vulnerability reporters poorly or
that are perceived to be slow or unresponsive may find themselves being
left to discover reports of vulnerabilities in their products at the
same time as the public becomes aware of them. CVD is a social process,
remember? And the game is played over and over, by players who share
knowledge between rounds.

# Declarative Disclosure Policies Reduce Uncertainty {#id-5.7DisclosureTiming-DeclarativeDisclosurePoliciesReduceUncertainty}

Avoiding surprise was one of the principles in [Section
2](2.-Principles-of-Coordinated-Vulnerability-Disclosure_47677450.html).
To that end, explicitly declared policies (from both researchers and
vendors) are a good thing. Expected disclosure timing is an important
question to ask whenever a report is received. Sometimes the reporter or
coordinator acting on the reporter\'s behalf has a standing policy of X
days with no exceptions. Other reporters may be more flexible. If in
doubt, ask.

# All Disclosure Agreements Are Contingent  {#id-5.7DisclosureTiming-AllDisclosureAgreementsAreContingent}

When vendors, reporters, and/or coordinators negotiate and agree to a
release timeline for a vulnerability, they may behave as if they\'ve
reached some state of détente with the world. But that\'s an illusion.
True, they may have reached an agreement with each other, but it ignores
another relevant role in the disclosure process: the adversary.
Adversaries do not care whether the vendor plans to release the patch in
a month, whether they need more time to test it prior to release,
whether the reporter wants to break the news at a conference event,
whether the reporter hopes to get paid for the work, or any other reason
that reporters and vendors may have for agreeing to the terms they came
to. Furthermore, because the vulnerability\'s existence is an observable
fact in the world, anyone else who happens to notice it might also
choose to disclose that knowledge on their own terms without being party
to any existing embargo agreements. Therefore it\'s important for
vendors, reporters, and coordinators alike to recognize that all
disclosure embargo agreements are necessarily contingent on
circumstances beyond the control of the parties involved; and that those
circumstances are not simply random events but may be controlled by
actors who are indifferent to their concerns. 

# Diverting from the Plan {#id-5.7DisclosureTiming-DivertingfromthePlan}

*Je n\'ai jamais eu un plan d\'opérations.*

*-Napoleon Bonaparte*

*\
*

Plans are one thing, but reality sometimes disagrees with our assessment
of it. Breaking a previous disclosure timeline agreement is sometimes
necessary when events warrant. Below we cover a few reasons to release
earlier or later than planned.

Reasons to release early include:

-   Evidence of active exploitation
-   Vendor fails to respond, is not acting in good faith, or denies the
    existence of a vulnerability
-   Vulnerability is known to be discovered by adversaries, so the race
    to defend vulnerable systems is more focused
-   All known users have been notified and patched (usually via private
    channels)

Reasons to hold back release include:

-   Vendor not ready with fix, but continuing to make progress and is
    acting in good faith
-   Vulnerabilities with severe impact, especially those affecting
    safety-critical or critical infrastructure
-   Cases where new information is found late in the process, for
    example that there are important but previously unrecognized
    dependencies that alter the impact of the vulnerability or patch
    deployability

In cases that divert from the planned disclosure date, it sometimes
helps to seek the opinion of a neutral third party for advice on how to
proceed. Finders, reporters, and vendors can each have valid yet
conflicting perspectives on what the best course of action might be.
Coordinator organizations are often able to help resolve conflicts by
taking a neutral approach to the situation and advising one or more
parties in light of their prior experience.

# Releasing Partial Information Can Help Adversaries {#id-5.7DisclosureTiming-ReleasingPartialInformationCanHelpAdversaries}

When considering what information to release about a vulnerability, our
advice is \"Don\'t tease.\" Our experience shows that the mere knowledge
of a vulnerability\'s existence in a feature of some product is
sufficient for a skillful person to discover it for themselves. Rumor of
a vulnerability draws attention from knowledgeable people with
vulnerability finding skills---and there\'s no guarantee that all those
people will have users\' best interests in mind. Thus, teasing the
existence of a vulnerability in a product can sometimes provide an
adversarial advantage that increases risk to end users.

# References {#id-5.7DisclosureTiming-References}

1.  Black Hat, \"Black Hat,\" \[Online\].
    Available: [https://www.blackhat.com/](https://www.blackhat.com/){.external-link
    rel="nofollow"}. \[Accessed 23 May 2017\].
2.  DEF CON, \"DEF CON,\" \[Online\].
    Available: [https://www.defcon.org/](https://www.defcon.org/){.external-link
    rel="nofollow"}. \[Accessed 23 May 2017\].
3.  USENIX, \"USENIX Security Conferences,\" \[Online\].
    Available: [https://www.usenix.org/conferences/byname/108](https://www.usenix.org/conferences/byname/108){.external-link
    rel="nofollow"}. \[Accessed 23 May 2017\].
4.  RSA, \"RSA Conference,\" \[Online\].
    Available: [https://www.rsaconference.com/](https://www.rsaconference.com/){.external-link
    rel="nofollow"}. \[Accessed 23 May 2017\].
5.  CanSecWest, \"CanSecWest Vancouver 2018,\" \[Online\].
    Available: [https://cansecwest.com/](https://cansecwest.com/){.external-link
    rel="nofollow"}. \[Accessed 23 May 2017\].

\

:::: {.panel style="border-style: solid;border-width: 1px;"}
::: panelContent
\< [5.6 Maintaining Pre-Disclosure
Secrecy](5.6-Maintaining-Pre-Disclosure-Secrecy_47677480.html) \| [6.
Troubleshooting CVD](6.-Troubleshooting-CVD_47677482.html) \>
:::
::::
::::::
::::::::
:::::::::::

::::: {#footer role="contentinfo"}
:::: {.section .footer-body}
Document generated by Confluence on 2023-10-27 14:58 -0400

::: {#footer-logo}
[Atlassian](https://www.atlassian.com/)
:::
::::
:::::
:::::::::::::::
